::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_3 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="3"}Chapter One {#chapter-one .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [Lost Valley]{.char-ccust50} {#lost-valley .para-ct}

S[[ilicon Valley has lost its
]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}[[way.]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}

The initial rise of the American software industry was made possible in
the first part of the twentieth century by what would seem today to be a
radical and fraught partnership between emerging technology companies
and the U.S. government. Silicon Valley's earliest innovations were
driven not by technical minds chasing trivial consumer products but by
scientists and engineers who aspired to see the most powerful technology
of the age deployed to address challenges of industrial and national
significance. Their pursuit of breakthroughs was intended not to satisfy
the passing needs of the moment but rather to drive forward a much
grander project, channeling the collective purpose and ambition of a
nation. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText3}This early dependence of Silicon
Valley on the nation-state and indeed the U.S. military has for the most
part been forgotten, written out of the region's history as an
inconvenient and dissonant fact---one that clashes with the Valley's
conception of itself as indebted only to its capacity to innovate.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText4}In the 1940s, the federal government began
supporting an array of research projects that would culminate in the
development of novel pharmaceutical compounds, intercontinental rockets,
and satellites, as well as the precursors to artificial intelligence.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText5}Indeed, Silicon Valley once stood at the
center of American military production and []{#page_4 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="4"}national security.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText6}Fairchild Camera and Instrument
Corporation, whose semiconductor division was founded in Mountain View,
California, and made possible the first primitive personal computers,
built reconnaissance equipment for spy satellites used by the Central
Intelligence Agency beginning in the late 1950s.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText7}For a time after World War II, all of the
U.S. Navy's ballistic missiles were produced in Santa Clara County,
California. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText8}Companies such as Lockheed
Missile & Space, Westinghouse, Ford Aerospace, and United Technologies
had thousands of employees working in Silicon Valley on weapons
production through the 1980s and into the 1990s.

This union of science and the state in the middle part of the twentieth
century arose in the wake of World War II.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText9}In November 1944, as Soviet forces closed
in on Germany from the east and Adolf Hitler prepared to abandon his
Wolf's Lair, or *Wolfsschanze*, his eastern front headquarters in the
north of present-day Poland, President Franklin Roosevelt was in
Washington, D.C., already contemplating an American victory and the end
of the conflict that had remade the world. Roosevelt sent a letter to
Vannevar Bush, the son of a pastor who had become the head of the U.S.
Office of Scientific Research and Development. Bush was born in 1890 in
Everett, Massachusetts, just north of Boston.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText10}Both his father and his grandfather had
grown up in Provincetown at the far end of Cape Cod.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText11}In the letter, Roosevelt described "the
unique experiment" that the United States had undertaken during the war
to leverage science in service of military ends. Roosevelt anticipated
the next era---and partnership between national government and private
industry---with precision. He wrote that there is "no reason why the
lessons to be found in this experiment"---that is, directing the
resources of an emerging scientific establishment to help wage the most
significant and violent war that the world had ever known---"cannot be
profitably employed in times of peace." His ambition was clear.
Roosevelt intended to see that the machinery of the state---its power
and prestige, as well as the financial resources of the newly victorious
nation and emerging []{#page_5 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="5"}hegemon---would spur the scientific
community forward in service of, among other things, the advancement of
public health and national welfare. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText12}The
challenge was to ensure that the engineers and researchers who had
directed their attention to the industry of war---and particularly the
physicists, who as Bush noted had "been thrown most violently off
stride"---could shift their efforts back to civilian advances in an era
of relative peace.

The entanglement of the state and scientific research both before and
after the war was itself built on an even longer history of connection
between innovation and politics. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText13}Many of
the earliest leaders of the American republic were themselves engineers,
from Thomas Jefferson, who designed sundials and studied writing
machines, to Benjamin Franklin, who experimented with and constructed
everything from lightning rods to eyeglasses. Franklin was not someone
who dabbled in science. He was an engineer, one of the most productive
in the century, who happened to become a politician.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText14}Dudley Herschbach, a Harvard professor
and chemist, has observed that the Founding Father's research into
electricity "was recognized as ushering in a scientific revolution
comparable to those wrought by Newton in the previous century or by
Watson and Crick in ours." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText15}For Jefferson,
science and natural history were his "passion," he wrote in a letter to
a federal judge in Kentucky in 1791, while politics was his "duty." Some
fields were so new that nonspecialists could aspire to make plausible
contributions to them. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText16}James Madison
dissected an American weasel and took nearly forty measurements of the
animal in order to compare it with European varieties of the species, as
part of an investigation into a theory, advanced by the French
naturalist Georges-Louis Leclerc in the eighteenth century, that animals
in North America had degenerated into smaller and weaker versions of
their counterparts across the ocean.

Unlike the legions of lawyers who have come to dominate American
politics in the modern era, many early American leaders, even if not
practitioners of science themselves, were nonetheless remarkably
[]{#page_6 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="6"}fluent in matters of engineering and
technology.[\[\*\]](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c001_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015e71 "footnote"){#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e71
.char-fnref .footnote_ref .noteref epub:type="noteref"
role="doc-noteref"} []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText18}John Adams, the
second president of the United States, by one historian's account was
focused on steering the early republic away from "unprofitable science,
identifiable in its focus on objects of vain curiosity," and toward more
practical forms of inquiry, including "applying science to the promotion
of agriculture." The innovators of the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries were often polymaths whose interests diverged wildly from the
contemporary expectation that depth, as opposed to breadth, is the most
effective means of contributing to a field.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText19}The term "scientist" itself was only
coined in 1834, to describe Mary Somerville, a Scottish astronomer and
mathematician; prior to that, the blending of pursuits across physics
and the humanities, for instance, was so commonplace and natural that a
more specialized word had not been needed. Many had little regard for
the boundary lines between disciplines, ranging from areas of study as
seemingly unrelated as linguistics to chemistry, and zoology to physics.
The frontiers and edges of science were still in that earliest stage of
expansion. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText20}As of 1481, the library at the
Vatican, the largest in Europe, had around thirty-five hundred books and
documents. The limited extent of humanity's collective knowledge made
possible and encouraged an interdisciplinary approach that would almost
be certain to stall an academic career today. That cross-pollination, as
well as the absence of a rigid adherence to the boundaries between
disciplines, was vital to a willingness to experiment, and to the
confidence of political leaders to opine on engineering and technical
questions that implicated matters of government.

[]{#page_7 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="7"}The rise of J. Robert Oppenheimer and dozens of his colleagues
in the late 1930s only further situated scientists and engineers at the
heart of American life and the defense of the democratic experiment.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText21}Joseph Licklider, a psychologist whose
work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology anticipated the rise
of early forms of AI, was hired in 1962 by the organization that would
become the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency---an
institution whose innovations would include the precursors to the modern
internet as well as the global positioning system.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText22}His research for his now classic paper
"Man-Computer Symbiosis," which was published in March 1960 and sketched
a vision of the interplay between computing intelligence and our own,
was supported by the U.S. Air Force. There was a closeness, and
significant degree of trust, in the relationships between political
leaders and the scientists on whom they relied for guidance and
direction. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText23}Shortly after the launch by
the Soviet Union of the satellite Sputnik in October 1957, Hans Bethe,
the German-born theoretical physicist and adviser to President Dwight D.
Eisenhower, was called to the White House. Within an hour, there was
agreement on a path forward to reinvigorate the American space program.
"You see that this is done," Eisenhower told an aide. The pace of change
and action in that era was swift. NASA was founded the following year.

By the end of World War II, the blending of science and public life---of
technical innovation and affairs of state---was essentially complete and
unremarkable. Many of these engineers and innovators would labor in
obscurity. Others, however, were celebrities in a way that might be
difficult to imagine today. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText24}In 1942, as
war spread across Europe and the Pacific, an article in *Collier's*
introduced Vannevar Bush, who would help found the Manhattan Project but
was at the time a little-known engineer and government bureaucrat, to
the magazine's readership of nearly three million, describing Bush as
"the man who may win the war." An interest in those untangling the most
fundamental mysteries of the physical world had been growing []{#page_8
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="8"}for
decades on both sides of the Atlantic.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText25}Marie Curie sent a letter to her brother
in 1903, shortly after discovering radium and winning the Nobel Prize,
her first of two, noting the onslaught of requests from journalists.
"One would like to dig into the ground somewhere to find a little
peace," she wrote. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText26}Similarly, Albert
Einstein was not only one of the twentieth century's greatest scientific
minds but also one of its most prominent celebrities---a popular figure
whose image and breakthrough discoveries that so thoroughly defied our
intuitive understanding of the nature of space and time routinely made
front-page news. And it was often the science itself that was the focus
of coverage.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText27}This was the American century, and
engineers were at the heart of the era's ascendant mythology.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText28}The pursuit of public interest through
science and engineering was considered a natural extension of the
national project, which entailed not only protecting U.S. interests but
moving society, and indeed civilization, up the hill. And while the
scientific community required funding and extensive support from the
government, the modern state was equally reliant on the advances that
those investments in science and engineering produced. The technical
outperformance of the United States in the twentieth century---that is,
the country's ability to reliably deliver economic and scientific
advances for the public, from medical breakthroughs to military
capabilities---was essential to its credibility.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText29}As Jürgen Habermas has suggested, a
failure by leaders to deliver on implied or explicit promises to the
public has the potential to provoke a crisis of legitimacy for a
government. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText30}When emerging technologies
that give rise to wealth do not advance the broader public interest,
trouble often follows. Put differently, the decadence of a culture or
civilization, and indeed its ruling class, will be forgiven only if that
culture is capable of delivering economic growth and security for the
public. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText31}In this way, the willingness of
the engineering and scientific communities to come to the aid of the
nation has been []{#page_9 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="9"}vital not only to the legitimacy of the
private sector but to the durability of political institutions across
the West.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText32}The modern incarnation of Silicon Valley
has strayed significantly from this tradition of collaboration with the
U.S. government, focusing instead on the consumer market, including the
online advertising and social media platforms that have come to
dominate---and limit---our sense of the potential of technology. A
generation of founders cloaked themselves in the rhetoric of lofty and
ambitious purpose---indeed their rallying cry to *change the world* has
grown lifeless from overuse---but often raised enormous amounts of
capital and hired legions of talented engineers merely to build
photo-sharing apps and chat interfaces for the modern consumer. A
skepticism of government work and national ambition took hold in the
Valley. The grand, collectivist experiments of the earlier part of the
twentieth century were discarded in favor of a narrow attentiveness to
the desires and needs of the individual. The market rewarded shallow
engagement with the potential of technology, as startup after startup
catered to the whims of late capitalist culture without any interest in
constructing the technical infrastructure that would address our most
significant challenges as a nation. The age of social media platforms
and food delivery apps had arrived. Medical breakthroughs, education
reform, and military advances would have to wait.

For decades, the U.S. government was viewed in Silicon Valley as an
impediment to innovation and a magnet for controversy---the obstacle to
progress, not its logical partner. The technology giants of the current
era long avoided government work. The level of internal dysfunction
within many state and federal agencies created seemingly insurmountable
barriers to entry for outsiders, including the insurgent startups of the
new economy. In time, the tech industry []{#page_10 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="10"}grew disinterested
in politics and broader communal projects. It viewed the American
national project, if it could even be called that, with a mix of
skepticism and indifference. As a result, many of the Valley's best
minds, and their flocks of engineering disciples, turned to the consumer
for sustenance.

Later in these pages, we will examine the reasons that the modern
technology giants, including Google, Amazon, and Facebook, shifted their
focus away from collaboration with the state to the consumer market. The
fundamental causes of the shift include the increasing divergence of the
interests and political instincts of the American elite from those of
the rest of the country following the end of World War II, as well as
the emotional distance of a generation of software engineers from the
broader economic struggles of the country and geopolitical threats of
the twentieth century. The most capable generation of coders has never
experienced a war or genuine social upheaval. Why court controversy with
your friends or risk their disapproval by working for the U.S. military
when you can retreat into the perceived safety of building another app?

As Silicon Valley turned inward and toward the consumer, the U.S.
government and the governments of many of its allies scaled back
involvement and innovation across numerous domains, from space travel to
military software to medical research. A widening innovation gap was
left by the state's retreat. Many on both sides of the divide cheered
this divergence, with skeptics of the private sector arguing that it
could not be trusted to operate in public domains and those in the
Valley remaining wary of government control and the misuse or abuse of
their inventions. It will, however, be a union of the state and the
software industry---not their separation and disentanglement---that will
be required for the United States and its allies in Europe and around
the world to remain as dominant in this century as they were in the
last.

In this book, we make the case that the technology sector has an
[]{#page_11 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="11"}affirmative obligation to support the state that made its
rise possible. A renewed embrace of the public interest will be
essential if the software industry is to rebuild trust with the country
and move toward a more transformative vision of what technology can and
should make possible. The ability of government to continue to provide
for the welfare and security of the public will also require a
willingness on the part of the state to borrow from the idiosyncratic
organizational culture that enabled so many companies in Silicon Valley
to reshape entire sectors of our economy. A commitment to advancing
outcomes at the expense of theater, to empowering those on the margins
of an organization who may be closest to the problem, and to setting
aside vain theological debates in favor of even marginal and often
imperfect progress is what allowed the American technology industry to
transform our lives. Those values also have the potential to transform
our government.

Indeed, the legitimacy of the American government and democratic regimes
around the world will require an increase in economic and technical
output that can be achieved only through the more efficient adoption of
technology and software. The public will forgive many failures and sins
of the political class. But the electorate will not overlook a systemic
inability to harness technology for the purpose of effectively
delivering the goods and services that are essential to our lives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

This book proceeds in four parts. In Part I, "The Software Century," we
argue that the current generation of spectacularly talented engineering
minds has become unmoored from any sense of national purpose or grander
and more meaningful project. These programmers retreated into the
construction of their technical wonders. And wonders indeed have been
built. The newest forms of artificial []{#page_12 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="12"}intelligence,
known as large language models, have for the first time in history
pointed to the possibility of artificial general intelligence---that is,
a computing intellect that could rival that of the human mind when it
comes to abstract reasoning and solving problems. It is not clear,
however, that the technology companies building these new forms of AI
will allow them to be used for military purposes. Many are hesitant if
not outright opposed to working with the U.S. government at all.

We make the case that one of the most significant challenges that we
face in this country is ensuring that the U.S. Department of Defense
turns the corner from an institution designed to fight and win kinetic
wars to an organization that can design, build, and acquire AI
weaponry---the unmanned drone swarms and robots that will dominate the
coming battlefield. The twenty-first century is the software century.
And the fate of the United States, and its allies, depends on the
ability of their defense and intelligence agencies to evolve, and
briskly. The generation that is best positioned to develop such
weaponry, however, is also the most hesitant, the most skeptical of
dedicating its considerable talents to military purposes. Many of these
engineers have never encountered someone who has served in the military.
They exist in a cultural space that enjoys the protection of the
American security umbrella but are responsible for none of its costs.

Part II, "The Hollowing Out of the American Mind," offers an account of
how we got here---of the origins of our broader cultural retreat both in
the United States and across the West. We begin with the most structural
issue---the current generation's abandonment of belief or conviction in
broader political projects. The most talented minds in the country and
the world have for the most part retreated from the often messy and
controversial work that is most vital and significant to our collective
welfare and defense. These engineers decline to work for the U.S.
military but do not hesitate to dedicate []{#page_13 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="13"}their lives to
raising capital to build the next app or social media platform of the
moment. The causes of this turn away from defending the American
national project, we argue, include the systematic attack and attempt to
dismantle any conception of American or Western identity during the
1960s and 1970s. The dismantling of an entire system of privilege was
rightly begun. But we failed to resurrect anything substantial, a
coherent collective identity or set of communal values, in its place.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText33}The void was left open, and the market
rushed in with fervor to fill the gap.

The result was a hollowing out of the American project, with a
rudderless yet highly educated elite at the helm. This generation knew
what it opposed---what it stood against and could not condone---but not
what it was for. The earliest technologists who built the personal
computer, the graphical user interface, and the mouse, for example, had
grown skeptical of advancing the aims of a nation whose allegiance many
of them believed it did not deserve. The rise of the internet in the
1990s was as a result co-opted by the market, and the consumer was
hailed as its king. But many have rightly questioned whether that
initial digital revolution made possible by the advent of the internet,
in the 1990s and 2000s, truly improved our lives, instead of merely
changing them.

It was against this backdrop that Palantir was founded and set out
working for American defense and intelligence agencies in the years
after the September 11 attacks. In Part III, "The Engineering Mindset,"
we describe the organizational culture that makes Palantir and many of
the other technology giants that have been founded in Silicon Valley
distinct. So much of what makes Palantir work constitutes a direct
rejection of the standard model in American corporate practice. In
particular, we discuss the lessons we can learn from the social
organization of honeybee swarms and flocks of starlings and the
implications of improvisational theater for building startups, as well
as the conformity experiments by Solomon Asch, Stanley []{#page_14
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="14"}Milgram, and others in the 1950s and 1960s that exposed the
feebleness of the vast majority of human minds when confronted with the
threat of authority.

We also discuss the early years of Palantir, when the company began
working with the U.S. Army and special forces personnel in Afghanistan
to develop software that would help predict the placement of roadside
bombs, the ubiquitous improvised explosive devices that became the
leading cause of casualties in both Iraq and Afghanistan over the course
of nearly a decade. The engineering mindset that has allowed us and
others to build such software relies on the preservation of space for
creative friction and rejection of intellectual fragility, a willingness
to shrug off the unrelenting pressure to conform and mimic what has come
before, and a skepticism of ideology in favor of the ruthless pursuit of
results.

Finally, in Part IV, "Rebuilding the Technological Republic," we address
what will be needed to reconstitute a culture of collective endeavor and
shared purpose. The Valley remains deeply reluctant to risk entering
into any number of public domains, including local law enforcement,
medicine, education, and until only recently national security---areas
that are often too politically fraught and unforgiving to outsiders. The
result has been the rise of innovation deserts across the country,
sectors that have spurned technology and resisted, often fiercely, the
entry of new ideas and participants. The public sector must also
incorporate the most effective features of Silicon Valley's culture in
order to remake its own, including ensuring that those leading our most
significant institutions have a stake in their success or failure.

More broadly, the reconstitution of a technological republic will
require a reassertion of national culture and values---and indeed of
collective identity and purpose---without which the gains and benefits
of the scientific and engineering breakthroughs of the current age may
be relegated to serving the narrow interests of a secluded elite.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
[]{#page_15 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="15"} • • •
:::

The United States since its founding has always been a technological
republic, one whose place in the world has been made possible and
advanced by its capacity for innovation. But our present advantage
cannot be taken for granted. It was a culture, one that cohered around a
shared objective, that won the last world war. And it will be a culture
that wins, or prevents, the next one. The decline and fall of empires
can be swift, and has come in the past without forewarning. An unwinding
of our skepticism of the American project will be necessary for us to
move forward. We must bend the latest and most advanced forms of AI to
our will, or risk allowing our adversaries to do so while we examine and
debate, sometimes it seems endlessly, the extent and character of our
divisions. Our central argument is that---in this new era of advanced
AI, which provides our geopolitical opponents with the most compelling
opportunity since the last world war to challenge our global
standing---we should return to that tradition of close collaboration
between the technology industry and the government. It is that
combination of a pursuit of innovation with the objectives of the nation
that will not only advance our welfare but safeguard the legitimacy of
the democratic project itself.
:::

::: {#d1-d2s8d3s2_footnotes .footnotes .footnotes epub:type="footnotes"}
[Skip Notes](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c002_r1.xhtml)

::: {#_footnote_d1-00015e71 .footnote .footnote epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"}
[[\*](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c001_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e71 "footnote reference"){.footnote
role="doc-backlink"} ]{.footnoteNum}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText17}We
have, in the modern era, crowded out technical minds from electoral
office. There are notable exceptions. Margaret Thatcher, for example,
worked as a chemist at a plastics firm before becoming the British prime
minister, and Angela Merkel earned a doctorate in quantum chemistry in
East Germany prior to serving as chancellor. Yet contemporary democratic
regimes have not placed scientists at their center. A survey conducted
in 2023 found that only 1.3 percent of state legislators in the United
States were either scientists or engineers.
:::
:::
