::: {.page_top_padding role="doc-acknowledgments"}
[•]{.char-ccust4}

# []{#page_219 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="219"}[Acknowledgments]{.char-ccust50} {#acknowledgments .para-bmt-ack-pg}

The writing of this book, for both of us, has been a privilege. We are
indebted to many collaborators and conspirators over the years,
intellectual influences and antagonists that have made possible and
shaped our thinking, including in Frankfurt and New Haven, as well as
Palo Alto and New York.

The project began with encouragement from Alexandra Wolfe Schiff and a
decisive introduction to Sloan Harris. He took a risk in venturing
toward, not away, from the book, which resisted categorization, falling
in the interstitial but we hope to think rich space between political,
business, and academic treatise. His guidance, particularly for two
first-time authors, was critical.

A book can, of course, take many forms, depending on the instincts and
inclinations of an editor. We were fortunate to have found ours, Paul
Whitlatch, who consistently and without hesitation pushed us toward the
production of something substantial and ambitious. His sense for the
sound of prose, as well as the ways in which we might provoke an
authentic discussion, were essential to crafting our argument. We are
more than grateful as well for the support of Gillian Blake and David
Drake at Crown---both of whom were unwavering in their desire to produce
a work that aspired to prompt genuine engagement with the reader,
particularly in a publishing industry where those in business are rarely
permitted, let alone encouraged, to venture outside of their expected
genre.

We are indebted to the research assistance and thoughtful guidance of
Landon Alecxih, Bill Rivers, Jack Crovitz, and Sam []{#page_220
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="220"}Feldman, as well as the counsel and support of Nikolaj
Gammeltoft and Julia O'Connell---all of whom were vital in their own
ways to ensuring that the manuscript matured, and briskly, into a final
product.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

Above all, this book owes its existence to Palantir---the company, its
founders, our colleagues, partners, organizational culture, and
software. The radical suggestion to build technology that served the
needs of U.S. defense and intelligence agencies, instead of merely
catering to the consumer, began with Peter Thiel, who sensed the
diminished ambition of Silicon Valley and without whom Palantir would
not exist. Alex is enormously grateful for his friendship, over more
than three decades, and support. The company is also a product and
reflection of the creative insight and unwavering commitment of Stephen
Cohen, along with the work and dedication of Joe Lonsdale and Nathan
Gettings. The construction of something from nothing would never have
been possible without the fierce loyalty and leadership of Shyam Sankar,
as well as Aki Jain, Ted Mabrey, Ryan Taylor, and Seth Robinson---each
of whom has been essential to building what Palantir has become. The
unflinching support of others, particularly in the early years and when
it was less than fashionable to invest in technology for the defense
industry, was vital as well. The partnership of Stanley Druckenmiller,
Ken Langone, Marie-Josée and Henry Kravis, and Herb Allen III will never
be forgotten.

The ideas expressed here are both an outgrowth of and an attempt at
articulating our experience at what we believe is an enormously
differentiated institution. It has been a wild and rich experiment
indeed, and one for which we are both more than grateful to be a part.
:::
