::: {.page_top_padding role="doc-bibliography"}
[•]{.char-ccust4}

# []{#page_261 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="261"}[Bibliography]{.char-ccust50} {#bibliography .para-bmt-bib-pg}

*ABC News*. "Absence of America's Upper Classes from the Military."
August 3, 2006.

Ackerman, Kenneth D. "Five Myths About J. Edgar Hoover." *Washington
Post*, November 9, 2011.

Adams, Henry. *Tom and Jack: The Intertwined Lives of Thomas Hart Benton
and Jackson Pollock*. New York: Bloomsbury Press, 2009.

Adekoya, Remi. "The Oppressed vs. Oppressor Mistake." Institute of Art
and Ideas, October 17, 2023.

Alexander, Leigh. "Why It's Time to Retire 'Disruption,' Silicon
Valley's Emptiest Buzzword." *Guardian*, January 11, 2016.

Allardyce, Gilbert. "The Rise and Fall of the Western Civilization
Course." *American Historical Review* 87, no. 3 (June 1982): 695--725.

Allen, Thomas B., and Norman Polmar. *Rickover: Father of the Nuclear
Navy*. Washington, D.C.: Potomac Books, 2007.

Allyn, Bobby. "IBM Abandons Facial Recognition Products, Condemns
Racially Biased Surveillance." NPR, June 9, 2020.

Amar, Akhil Reed. *America's Constitution: A Biography*. New York:
Random House, 2005.

*American Experience: The Presidents*. "Nixon, Part One: The Quest."
PBS, October 15, 1990.

*American Experience: Silicon Valley*. "Silicon Valley: Chapter 1."
Directed by Randall MacLowry. PBS, February 5, 2013.

Ames, Roger T. and Henry Rosemont Jr. *The Analects of Confucius: A
Philosophical Translation*. New York: Ballantine Books, 1998.

Anders, George and Ann Grimes. "eToys' Shares Nearly Quadruple,
Outstripping Rival Toys 'R' Us." *Wall Street Journal*, May 21, 1999.

Andersen, Ross. "The Panopticon Is Already Here." *Atlantic*,
September 2020.

Anderson, Benedict. *Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and
Spread of Nationalism*. Rev. ed. London: Verso, 2016.

[]{#page_262 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="262"}Appiah, Kwame Anthony. "There Is No Such Thing as Western
Civilisation." *Guardian*, November 9, 2016.

Applebaum, Anne. "There Is No Liberal World Order." *Atlantic*, March
31, 2022.

Arendt, Hannah. *Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of
Evil*. New York: Viking Press, 1963.

Armitage, David et al. *The Teaching of the Arts and Humanities at
Harvard College: Mapping the Future*. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard
University, 2013.

*Army Technology.* "Oshkosh MRAP All Terrain Vehicle." September 14,
2009.

Asch, Solomon E. "Effects of Group Pressure upon the Modification and
Distortion of Judgments." In *Groups, Leadership, and Men: Research in
Human Relations*, edited by Harold Guetzko. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Press,
1951.

---------. "Opinions and Social Pressure." *Scientific American* 193,
no. 5 (November 1955): 3, 31--35.

*Atlantic*. "The Reminiscences of Ernest Renan." August 1883.

Auping, Michael. "Lucian Freud: The Last Interview." *Times* (London),
January 28, 2012.

The Babylonian Talmud. Translated by Michael L. Rodkinson. Boston:
Talmud Society, 1918.

Bai, Matt. *All the Truth Is Out: The Week Politics Went Tabloid*. New
York: Vintage, 2014.

Baldwin, John, et al. "Memoirs of Fellows and Corresponding Fellows of
the Medieval Academy of America." *Speculum* 91, no. 3 (July 2016):
889--907.

Baltzell, E. Digby. *The Protestant Establishment: Aristocracy and Caste
in America*. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1987.

Barnett, Lincoln. "J. Robert Oppenheimer." *Life*, October 10, 1949.

Barr, Alistair. "Google's 'Don't Be Evil' Becomes Alphabet's 'Do the
Right Thing.' " *Wall Street Journal*, October 2, 2015.

Barr, Stephen. "Clinton Proposes Procurement Changes." *Washington
Post*, October 27, 1993.

Barton, Aden. "How Harvard Careerism Killed the Classroom." *Harvard
Crimson*, April 21, 2023.

Bass, Paul, and Douglas W. Rae. *Murder in the Model City: The Black
Panthers, Yale, and the Redemption of a Killer*. New York: Basic Books,
2006.

Bastié, Eugénie. "Emmanuel Macron, de la négation de la culture
française à l'exaltation de la France éternelle." *Le Figaro*, June 5,
2023.

Beard, Mary. "Kenneth Clark by James Stourton Review---Mary Beard on
Civilisation Without Women." *Guardian*, October 1, 2016.

Bearden, Milton. "Afghanistan, Graveyard of Empires." *Foreign Affairs*,
November 1, 2001.

[]{#page_263 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="263"}Bellah, Robert. "Civil Religion in America." *Daedalus* 96,
no. 1 (Winter 1967).

Bender, Emily M., et al. "On the Dangers of Stochastic Parrots: Can
Language Models Be Too Big?" *Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Conference on
Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency* (2021): 610--23.

Benedict, Ruth. *Patterns of Culture*. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1934.

Benton, Thomas Hart. *An Artist in America*. Columbia, Mo.: University
of Missouri Press, 1968.

Bergman, Ronen. *Rise and Kill First: The Secret History of Israel's
Targeted Assassinations*. New York: Random House, 2018.

Berlin, Isaiah. *The Hedgehog and the Fox*. London: Weidenfeld &
Nicolson, 1954.

Berman, Morris. *The Twilight of American Culture*. New York: W. W.
Norton, 2006.

Bernstein, Jeremy. "Oppenheimer's Beginnings." *New England Review* 25,
no. ½ (Winter/Spring 2004): 38--51.

Biddle, Wayne. "General Dynamics Draws Penalties on Navy Dealings." *New
York Times*, May 22, 1985.

---------. "House Approves Stiff Rules to Control Cost of Military Spare
Parts." *New York Times*, May 31, 1984.

---------. "Navy Lists General Dynamics' Gifts to Rickover." *New York
Times*, June 5, 1985.

---------. "Rickover Tells Lehman He Gave Away Gifts." *New York Times*,
June 11, 1985.

Bilger, Burkhard. "Piecing Together the Secrets of the Stasi." *New
Yorker*, May 27, 2024.

Bird, Kai, and Martin J. Sherwin. *American Prometheus: The Triumph and
Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer*. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2005.

Black, C. B. *Paris and Excursions from Paris*. London: Sampson Low,
Marston, Low & Searle, 1873.

Blackstone, William. *Commentaries on the Laws of England in Four
Books*, Vol. 2. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott, 1893.

Blass, Thomas. *The Man Who Shocked the World: The Life and Legacy of
Stanley Milgram*. New York: Basic Books, 2009.

Blium, Arlen Viktorovich, and Donna M. Farina. "Forbidden Topics: Early
Soviet Censorship Directives." *Book History 1* (1998): 268--82.

Bloom, Allan. *The Closing of the American Mind*. New York: Simon &
Schuster, 1987.

---------. "Responses to Fukuyama." *National Interest*, no. 16 (Summer
1989): 19--35.

Brand, Stewart. "We Owe It All to the Hippies." *Time*, March 1, 1995.

[]{#page_264 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="264"}Breidlid, Anders, Fredrik Chr. Brøgger, Oyvind T. Gulliksen,
and Torbjorn Sirevag. *American Culture: An Anthology*. 2nd ed. New
York: Routledge, 2008.

Bremmer, Ian, and Mustafa Suleyman. "The AI Power Paradox: Can States
Learn to Govern Artificial Intelligence---Before It's Too Late?"
*Foreign Affairs*, August 16, 2023.

Brennan, Timothy. *Places of Mind: A Life of Edward Said*. New York:
Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2021.

Brill, Steven. *The Death of Truth: How Social Media and the Internet
Gave Snake Oil Salesmen and Demagogues the Weapons They Needed to
Destroy Trust and Polarize the World---and What We Can Do*. New York:
Knopf, 2024.

---------. "Trump, Palantir, and the Battle to Clean Up a Huge Army
Procurement Swamp." *Fortune*, March 27, 2017.

Brock, Claire. "The Public Worth of Mary Somerville." *British Journal
for the History of Science* 39, no. 2 (June 2006): 255--72.

Brodie, Janet Farrell. *The First Atomic Bomb: The Trinity Site in New
Mexico*. Lincoln, Neb.: University of Nebraska Press, 2023.

Brooks, David. "The Sins of the Educated Class." *New York Times*, June
6, 2024.

Brown, Susan. "Soldier's Dad: 'He'll Always Be My Hero.' " *Times of
Northwest Indiana*, October 2, 2011.

Bruckner, Pascal. *The Tears of the White Man: Compassion as Contempt*.
Translated by William R. Beer. New York: Free Press, 1986.

Brudnick, Ida A. "Congressional Salaries and Allowances: In Brief."
Congressional Research Service, June 27, 2024.

Brustein, Joshua. "Microsoft Wins \$480 Million Army Battlefield
Contract." *Bloomberg*, November 28, 2018.

Bryant, F. Carlene. *We're All Kin: A Cultural Study of a Mountain
Neighborhood*. Knoxville, Tenn.: University of Tennessee Press, 1981.

Bubeck, Sébastien, et al. "Sparks of Artificial General Intelligence:
Early Experiments with GPT-4." ArXiv, March 22, 2023.

Buckley, Chris, and Didi Kirsten Tatlow. "Cultural Revolution Shaped Xi
Jinping, from Schoolboy to Survivor." *New York Times*, September 24,
2015.

Burke, Kenneth. *Permanence and Change*. University of California Press,
1935.

Burnham, David. "The Computer, the Consumer, and Privacy." *New York
Times*, March 4, 1984.

Burns, Ken, Lynn Novick, and Sarah Botstein. *The U.S. and the
Holocaust*. PBS, September 18, 2022.

Bush, Vannevar. "As We May Think." *Atlantic Monthly*, July 1945.

---------. *Modern Arms and Free Men*. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1949.

[]{#page_265 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="265"}---------. *Science: The Endless Frontier---A Report to the
President*. Washington, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office,
1945.

Butler, Jack. "Does the Left Really Want to Argue That Enjoying *Lord of
the Rings* Is 'Far-Right'?" *National Review*, July 19, 2024.

Byrne, John. "Northwest Indiana Medic Killed in Afghanistan." *Chicago
Tribune*, October 1, 2011.

Caddell, Patrick. Interviewed in *American Experience: The Presidents*.
PBS, November 11, 2002.

Carlyle, Thomas. *On Heroes: Hero-Worship, and the Heroic in History*.
London: James Fraser, 1841.

Carroll, Eugene J., Jr. "NATO Enlargement: To What End?" In *NATO
Enlargement: Illusions and Reality*, edited by Ted Galen Carpenter and
Barbara Conry. Washington, D.C.: Cato Institute, 1998.

Carter, Stephen L. *The Culture of Disbelief*. New York: Basic Books,
1993.

Cassy, John. "eToys Files for Bankruptcy." *Guardian*, February 28,
2001.

Ceraso, John, Irvin Rock, and Howard Gruber. "On Solomon Asch." In *The
Legacy of Solomon Asch*. Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,
1990.

Channick, Robert. "Groupon Issues 'Going Concern' Warning as
Chicago-Based Online Marketplace Terminates River North HQ Lease."
*Chicago Tribune*, May 12, 2023.

Chapman, Lizette. "Inside Palantir's War with the U.S. Army."
*Bloomberg*, October 28, 2016.

Chauncey, Sam, Jr. Letter to the Editor. *Yale Daily News*, November 29,
2017.

Cheyette, Fredric L. "Beyond Western Civilization: Rebuilding the
Survey." *History Teacher* 10, no. 4 (August 1977): 535--38.

---------. *Ermengard of Narbonne and the World of the Troubadours*.
Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 2004.

*Chicago Tribune*. "Bermingham, Once Chicago Banker, Dies." July 14,
1958.

Child, Ben. "Mark Zuckerberg Rejects His Portrayal in The Social
Network." *Guardian*, October 20, 2010.

*China Daily.* "President Xi's Speech on China-US Ties." September 24,
2015.

Chomsky, Noam, Ian Roberts, and Jeffrey Watumull. "The False Promise of
ChatGPT." *New York Times*, March 8, 2023.

Christian, Brian. "How a Google Employee Fell for the Eliza Effect."
*Atlantic*, June 21, 2022.

Clark, Kenneth. *Civilisation*. New York: Harper & Row, 1969.

Clinton, William J. "Remarks Announcing Federal Procurement Reforms and
Spending Cut Proposals." Washington, D.C., October 26, 1993.

[]{#page_266 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="266"}---------. "Remarks Announcing the Report of the National
Performance Review and an Exchange with Reporters." Washington, D.C.,
September 7, 1993.

---------. "Remarks on Signing the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act
of 1994." Washington, D.C., October 13, 1994.

---------. State of the Union Address. Washington, D.C., January 23,
1996.

Coffey, John W. "State of Higher Education: Chaos." *Stanford Daily*,
November 29, 1971.

*Commentary*. "The Study of Man: On Talcott Parsons." 1962.

Condliffe, Jamie. "Amazon Is Latest Tech Giant to Face Staff Backlash
over Government Work." *New York Times*, June 22, 2018.

Conger, Kate. "Google Plans Not to Renew Its Contract for Project Maven,
a Controversial Pentagon Drone AI Imaging Program." *Gizmodo*, June 1,
2018.

Corcoran, Elizabeth. "Squaring Off in a Game of Checkers." *Washington
Post*, August 14, 1994.

Cristancho, Sayra, and Graham Thompson. "Building Resilient Healthcare
Teams: Insights from Analogy to the Social Biology of Ants, Honey Bees,
and Other Social Insects." *Perspectives on Medical Education* 12, no. 1
(2023).

Curie, Eve. *Madame Curie*. Translated by Vincent Sheean. Garden City,
N.Y.: Doubleday, Doran, 1937.

Daub, Adrian. "The Disruption Con: Why Big Tech's Favourite Buzzword Is
Nonsense." *Guardian*, September 24, 2020.

Demick, Barbara, and David Pierson. "China Political Star Xi Jinping a
Study in Contrasts." *Los Angeles Times*, February 11, 2012.

Dewey, John. "Pragmatic America." In *America's Public Philosopher:
Essays on Social Justice, Economics, Education, and the Future of
Democracy*, edited by Eric Thomas Weber. New York: Columbia University
Press, 2021.

*Die Welt*. "Dieter Hildebrandt soll in NSDAP gewesen sein." June 30,
2007.

Doss, Erika. *Benton, Pollock, and the Politics of Modernism*. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1995.

Doward, Jamie. "A Gift-Horse in the Mouse." *Guardian*, October 23,
1999.

Dowd, Maureen. "The Ivy League Flunks Out." *New York Times*,
December 9, 2023.

Draper, Robert. "Boondoggle Goes Boom." *New Republic*, June 19, 2013.

Drucker, Peter F. "The Coming of the New Organization." *Harvard
Business Review*, January 1988.

Dudeck, Theresa Robbins. *Keith Johnstone: A Critical Biography*.
London: Bloomsbury, 2013.

[]{#page_267 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="267"}Duffy, Michael. "Hyman George Rickover, 1900--1986: They
Broke the Mold." *Time*, July 21, 1986.

Dugatkin, Lee Alan. "Buffon, Jefferson, and the Theory of New World
Degeneracy." *Evolution: Education and Outreach* 12 (2019).

Dunbar, Robin. "Co-evolution of Neocortex Size, Group Size, and Language
in Humans." *Behavioral and Brain Sciences* 16, no. 4 (1993).

Eagleton Institute of Politics. *Scientists in State Politics*. New
Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University, 2023.
eagleton.rutgers.edu/​scientists-in-state-politics.

*Economist*. "Europe Faces a Painful Adjustment to Higher Defence
Spending." February 22, 2024.

Einstein, Albert. Letter from Albert Einstein to Franklin D. Roosevelt,
Peconic, N.Y., August 2, 1939. Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential
Library and Museum, Hyde Park, N.Y.

Eisenhower, Dwight D. Letter from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Edward J.
Bermingham, February 28, 1951. Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential
Library, Abilene, Kans.

Emerson, Ralph Waldo. "Self-Reliance." In *Nature and Selected Essays*,
edited by Larzer Ziff. Penguin Books, 2003.

Eschner, Kat. "Computers Are Great at Chess, But That Doesn't Mean the
Game Is 'Solved.' " *Smithsonian Magazine*, February 10, 2017.

Eshel, Amir. "Jewish Memories, German Futures: Recent Debates in Germany
About the Past." Robert A. and Sandra Borns Jewish Studies Program,
Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind., 2001.

Fahlenbrach, Rüdiger. "Founder-CEOs, Investment Decisions, and Stock
Market Performance." *Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis*
44, no. 2 (April 2009): 439--66.

Fairhall, James. "The Case for the \$435 Hammer." *Washington Monthly*,
January 1, 1987.

Fandos, Nicholas. "In an Online World, a New Generation of Protesters
Chooses Anonymity." *New York Times*, May 2, 2024.

Fano, Robert M. "Joseph Carl Robnett Licklider." In *Biographical
Memoirs*, Vol. 3. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, 1998.

Farooq, Umar. "Pakistani Fertilizer Grows Both Taliban Bombs and Afghan
Crops." *Christian Science Monitor*, May 9, 2013.

Ferguson, Niall. *Civilization: The West and the Rest*. New York:
Penguin Books, 2011.

Filipovic, Jill. "I Was Wrong About Trigger Warnings." *Atlantic*,
August 9, 2023.

[]{#page_268 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="268"}Finney, John W. "Rickover, Father of Nuclear Navy, Dies at
86." *New York Times*, July 9, 1986.

Frank, Richard B. *Tower of Skulls: A History of the Asia-Pacific War:
July 1937--May 1942*. New York: W. W. Norton, 2020.

Franke-Ruta, Garance. "Paul Harvey's 1978 'So God Made a Farmer'
Speech." *Atlantic*, February 3, 2013.

*Frankfurter Allgemeine.* "Geistige Brandstiftung. Bubis wendet sich
gegen Walser." October 13, 1998.

Freedman, Danny. "They're Getting Rid of 'Red Tape' in Washington.
Literally." *Washington Post*, January 16, 2023.

Freire, Paulo. *Pedagogy of the Oppressed*. Translated by Myra Bergman
Ramos. Penguin Books, 2017.

Freud, Sigmund. "Obsessive Actions and Religious Practices." In
*Readings in Ritual Studies*, edited by Ronald L. Grimes. Upper Saddle
River, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1996.

Frisch, Karl von. *The Dance Language and Orientation of Bees*.
Translated by Leigh E. Chadwick. Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press of
Harvard University Press, 1967.

Fry, Jason. "eToys Story." *Wall Street Journal*, July 12, 1999.

Frye, Northrop. "The Decline of the West by Oswald Spengler." *Daedalus*
103, no. 1 (Winter 1974): 1--13.

Fukuyama, Francis. "The End of History?" *National Interest*, no. 16
(Summer 1989).

---------. "Waltzing with (Leo) Strauss." *American Interest* 10, no. 4
(February 2015).

Future of Life Institute. "Pause Giant AI Experiments: An Open Letter."
March 22, 2023.
[futureoflife.org/​open-letter/​pause-giant-ai-experiments/](http://futureoflife.org/open-letter/pause-giant-ai-experiments/){.char-url}.

Gaddis, John Lewis. *The Long Peace: Inquiries into the History of the
Cold War*. New York: Oxford University Press, 1987.

---------. *On Grand Strategy*. Penguin Books, 2019.

Gallup. "Confidence in Institutions."
[news.gallup.com/​poll/​1597/​confidence-institutions.aspx](http://news.gallup.com/poll/1597/confidence-institutions.aspx){.char-url}.

Galton, Francis. "Vox Populi." *Nature* 75, no. 1949 (March 1907):
450--51.

Gayford, Martin. *Man with a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by
Lucian Freud*. London: Thames & Hudson, 2019.

Girard, René. "Generative Scapegoating." In *Violent Origins: Walter
Burket, René Girard, and Jonathan Z. Smith on Ritual Killing and
Cultural Formation*, edited by Robert G. Hammerton-Kelly. Stanford,
Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1987.

Gladwell, Malcolm. "The Tweaker." *New Yorker*, November 6, 2011.

[]{#page_269 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="269"}Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von. *Faust*. 1808. Translated by
Abraham Hayward and A. Bucheim. London: George Bell and Sons, 1892.

Goffman, Erving. *Asylums: Essays on the Social Situation of Mental
Patients and Other Inmates*. London: Taylor & Francis, 2017.

Goh Keng Swee. *Report on the Ministry of Education, Singapore*.
February 10, 1979.

Goldberg, Jeffrey. "The Obama Doctrine." *Atlantic*, April 2016.

Goldfarb, Brent, and David A. Kirsch. *Bubbles and Crashes: The Boom and
Bust of Technological Innovation*. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University
Press, 2019.

Goldstein, Tom. "Neier Is Quitting Post at A.C.L.U.; He Denies Link to
Defense of Nazis." *New York Times*, April 18, 1978.

Good, Irving John. "Speculations Concerning the First Ultraintelligent
Machine." In *Advances in Computers*, Vol. 6, edited by Franz L. Alt and
Morris Rubinoff. New York: Academic Press, 1965.

Gopinathan, Saravanan. "Singapore's Language Policies: Strategies for a
Plural Society." *Southeast Asian Affairs* (1979): 280--95.

Gordon, Robert J. "The End of Economic Growth." *Prospect*, January 21,
2016.

Gore, Al. *Common Sense Government: Works Better and Costs Less*.
National Performance Review (1998).

---------. "Remarks at the National Performance Review Press
Conference." October 26, 1993, Washington, D.C., C-SPAN.

Grady, Christine. "Institutional Review Boards: Purpose and Challenges."
*CHEST* 148, no. 5 (November 2015): 1148--55.

Graeber, David. "The New Anarchists." *New Left Review* 13
(January/February 2002).

---------. "Of Flying Cars and the Declining Rate of Profit." *Baffler*,
no. 9 (March 2012).

Gray, Peter. "The Decline of Play and the Rise of Psychopathology in
Children and Adolescents." *American Journal of Play* 3, no. 4 (2011).

Green, Heather. "The Great Yuletide Shakeout." *Businessweek*, November
1, 1999.

Greene, Jay. "Amazon Bans Police Use of Its Facial-Recognition
Technology for a Year." *Washington Post*, June 10, 2020.

Greenspan, Alan. "Remarks by Chairman Alan Greenspan: At the Annual
Dinner and Francis Boyer Lecture of the American Enterprise Institute
for Public Policy Research." Washington, D.C., December 5, 1996.

Gregory I. *The Life of Our Most Holy Father S. Benedict*. Rome: 1895.

Guerrieri, Matthew. *The First Four Notes: Beethoven's Fifth and the
Human Imagination*. New York: Vintage Books, 2014.

Gutmann, Amy. "Democratic Citizenship." *Boston Review*, October 1,
1994.

[]{#page_270 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="270"}Habermas, Jürgen. *Legitimation Crisis*. Translated by
Thomas McCarthy. Cambridge, U.K.: Polity Press, 1976.

Hall, Andrew B. *Who Wants to Run? How the Devaluing of Political Office
Drives Polarization*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2019.

Handler, Edward. " 'Nature Itself Is All Arcanum': The Scientific
Outlook of John Adams." *Proceedings of the American Philosophical
Society* 120, no. 3 (June 1976): 216--29.

Hanna, Graeme. " 'Stop Working with Pentagon'---OpenAI Staff Face
Protests." *ReadWrite*, February 13, 2024.

Harris, Gareth. "Mary Beard BBC Segment on Kenneth Clark's Civilisation
Renews Debate About Its Eurocentricity." *Art Newspaper*, April 29,
2024.

Harris, Robin. *Not for Turning: The Life of Margaret Thatcher*. New
York: Thomas Dunne Books, 2013.

Harris, Shane. "Palantir Wins Competition to Build Army Intelligence
System." *Washington Post*, March 26, 2019.

Hartocollis, Anemona, Stephanie Saul, and Vimal Patel. "At Harvard, a
Battle Over What Should Be Said About the Hamas Attacks." *New York
Times*, October 10, 2023.

Harwell, Drew. "Amazon Extends Ban on Police Use of Its Facial
Recognition Technology Indefinitely." *Washington Post*, May 18, 2021.

Hay, Denys. *Europe: The Emergence of an Idea*. 2nd ed. Edinburgh:
Edinburgh University Press, 1968.

Heinrich, Thomas. "Cold War Armory: Military Contracting in Silicon
Valley." *Enterprise and Society* 3, no. 2 (June 2002): 247--84.

Heller, Ágnes. *Beyond Justice*. Oxford, U.K.: Blackwell, 1987.

Helman, Christopher, and Hank Tucker. "The War in Afghanistan Cost
America \$300 Million per Day for 20 Years, with Big Bills Yet to Come."
*Forbes*, August 16, 2021.

Henderson, Rob. " 'Luxury Beliefs' Are the Latest Status Symbol for Rich
Americans." *New York Post*, August 17, 2019.

---------. *Troubled: A Memoir of Foster Care, Family, and Social
Class*. New York: Gallery Books, 2024.

Henshall, Will. "The U.S. Military's Investments into Artificial
Intelligence Are Skyrocketing," *Time*, March 29, 2024.

Herman, Arthur. *Freedom's Forge: How American Business Produced Victory
in World War II*. New York: Random House, 2013.

---------. "What if Apple Designed an iFighter?" *Wall Street Journal*,
July 23, 2012.

Hersey, John. *Hiroshima*. New York: Vintage Books, 1946.

[]{#page_271 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="271"}Hewlett, Richard G., and Francis Duncan. *Nuclear Navy,
1946--1962*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1974.

Hirsch, E. D., Jr. *Cultural Literacy: What Every American Needs to
Know*. New York: Vintage, 1988.

Hirsch, Lauren. "One Law Firm Prepared Both Penn and Harvard for Hearing
on Antisemitism." *New York Times*, December 8, 2023.

Hoffheimer, Michael H. *Justice Holmes and The Natural Law*. New York:
Routledge, 2013.

Hofstadter, Douglas. "Gödel, Escher, Bach, and AI." *Atlantic*, July 8,
2023.

Holusha, John. "Taiichi Ohno, Whose Car System Aided Toyota's Climb,
Dies at 78." *New York Times*, May 31, 1990.

Homer. *The Odyssey of Homer*. Translated by George Herbert Palmer.
Cambridge, Mass.: Houghton Mifflin, 1949.

Hoover, Herbert. *The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover: Years of Adventure,
1874--1920*. New York: Macmillan, 1953.

Huet, Ellen. "Protesters Gather Outside OpenAI Headquarters."
*Bloomberg*, February 13, 2024.

Huntington, Samuel P. "The Clash of Civilizations?" *Foreign Affairs*
72, no. 3 (1993): 22--49.

---------. "Dead Souls: The Denationalization of the American Elite."
*National Interest* (Spring 2004).

Illmer, Andreas. "German Writer Martin Walser Dies Aged 96." *Deutsche
Welle*, July 28, 2023.

Impelli, Matthew. "Jerome Powell Salary Admission Sparks Debate."
*Newsweek*, February 7, 2023.

*Irish Times*. "Le Pen Scores Own Goal with Team Slur." June 25, 1996.

Isaac, Mike, and Erin Griffith. "Open AI Is Growing Fast and Burning
Through Piles of Money." *New York Times*, September 27, 2024.

Isaacson, Walter. *Benjamin Franklin: An American Life*. New York: Simon
& Schuster, 2003.

---------. *The Innovators: How a Group of Hackers, Geniuses, and Geeks
Created the Digital Revolution*. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2015.

---------. *Steve Jobs*. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2013.

Ismay, John. " 'We Hated What We Were Doing': Veterans Recall
Firebombing Japan." *New York Times*, March 9, 2020.

Issa, Darrel and Jason Chaffetz. Letter from Darrel Issa and Jason
Chaffetz to Leon E. Panetta, August 1, 2012.

Jacobsen, Annie. *Operation Paperclip: The Secret Intelligence Program
That Brought Nazi Scientists to America*. New York: Little, Brown, 2014.

[]{#page_272 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="272"}Jefferson, Thomas. Letter from Thomas Jefferson to Harry
Innes, Philadelphia, March 7, 1791. In *The Papers of Thomas Jefferson*,
Vol. 19. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1974.

Jégo, Yves. "Emmanuel Macron et le reniement de la culture française."
*Le Figaro*, February 6, 2017.

Jensen, Jeff. "Toby Lenk." *Advertising Age*, June 1, 1998.

Johnson, Ian. "In Singapore, Chinese Dialects Revive After Decades of
Restrictions." *New York Times*, August 26, 2017.

Johnstone, Keith. *Impro: Improvisation and the Theatre*. New York:
Routledge, 1981.

Junge, Traudl. *Until the Final Hour: Hitler's Last Secretary*, edited
by Melissa Müller and translated by Anthea Bell. New York: Arcade, 2004.

Kabaservice, Geoffrey. *The Guardians: Kingman Brewster, His Circle, and
the Rise of the Liberal Establishment*. New York: Henry Holt, 2004.

Kamenetzky, David A. "The Debate on National Identity and the Martin
Walser Speech: How Does Germany Reckon with Its Past?" *SAIS Review* 19,
no. 2 (Summer--Fall 1999): 257--66.

Karmel, Pepe, ed. *Jackson Pollock: Interviews, Articles, and Reviews*.
New York: Museum of Modern Art, 1999.

Karp, Alexander C. "Our Oppenheimer Moment: The Creation of A.I.
Weapons." *New York Times*, July 25, 2023.

Karp, Alexander C., and Nicholas W. Zamiska. "New Weapons Will Eclipse
Atomic Bombs. Their Builders Should Ask Themselves This Question."
*Washington Post*, June 25, 2024.

---------. "Silicon Valley Has a Harvard Problem." *Time*, February 12,
2024.

Kasparov, Garry. *Deep Thinking: Where Machine Intelligence Ends and
Human Creativity Begins*. New York: PublicAffairs, 2017.

Keeley, Lawrence H. *War Before Civilization: The Myth of the Peaceful
Savage*. New York: Oxford University Press, 1996.

Kelleher, Thomas J., Jr., et al. *Smith, Currie, and Hancock's Federal
Government Construction Contracts*. Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley, 2010.

Kennedy, Paul. *The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers: Economic Change
and Military Conflict from 1500 to 2000*. New York: Random House, 1989.

Kerouac, Jack. *On the Road*. New York: Penguin Books, 1976.

Kimball, Roger. "Institutionalizing Our Demise: America vs.
Multiculturalism." *New Criterion*, June 2004.

---------. "The Perils of Designer Tribalism." *New Criterion*, April
2001.

King, Charles. *Gods of the Upper Air: How a Circle of Renegade
Anthropologists []{#page_273 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="273"}Reinvented Race, Sex, and Gender in the
Twentieth Century*. New York: Anchor Books, 2020.

Kintner, E. E. "Admiral Rickover's Gamble." *Atlantic*, January 1959.

Kissinger, Henry. Foreword to *From Third World to First: The Singapore
Story: 1965--2000*, by Lee Kuan Yew. New York: HarperCollins, 2000.

Kitchen, Lynn W., David W. Vaughn, and Donald R. Skillman. "Role of U.S.
Military Research Programs in the Development of U.S. Food and Drug
Administration--Approved Antimalarial Drugs." *Clinical Infectious
Diseases* 43, no. 1 (2006): 67--71.

Klebnikov, Sergei. "U.S. Tech Stocks Are Now Worth More Than
\$9 Trillion, Eclipsing the Entire European Stock Market." *Forbes*,
December 15, 2020.

Kovach, Thomas, and Martin Walser. *The Burden of the Past: Martin
Walser on Modern German Identity: Texts, Contexts, Commentary*.
Rochester, N.Y.: Camden House, 2008.

Krcmaric, Daniel, Stephen C. Nelson, and Andrew Roberts. "Billionaire
Politicians: A Global Perspective." *Perspectives on Politics*,
October 25, 2023.

Kris, Ernst. *Psychoanalytic Explorations in Art*. New York:
International Universities Press, 1952.

Kristol, Irving. "Countercultures." *Commentary*, December 1994.

LaFrance, Adrienne. "The Rise of Techno-Authoritarianism." *Atlantic*,
January 30, 2024.

Lassiter, Matthew D. "Who Speaks for the Silent Majority?" *New York
Times*, November 2, 2011.

Lee, Joon Mahn, Jongsoo Kim, and Joonhyung Bae. "Founder CEOs and
Innovation: Evidence from S&P 500 Firms." SSRN, February 17, 2016.

Lee Kuan Yew. "In His Own Words: Higher Pay Will Attract Most Talented
Team, So Country Can Prosper." *Straits Times*, November 1, 1994.

---------. *Lee Kuan Yew: The Grand Master's Insights on China, the
United States, and the World*, edited by Graham Allison and Robert D.
Blackwill. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 2020.

---------. "Speech at the National Day Rally." August 17, 1986, Kallang
Theatre, Singapore, Singapore National Archives.

---------. "Speech at the Opening of the 'Speak Mandarin Campaign.' "
September 21, 1984, Singapore Conference Hall, Singapore National
Archives.

---------. "Speech at the 28th Anniversary of Liquor Retailers'
Association." October 3, 1965, Chinese Chamber of Commerce, Singapore,
Singapore National Archives.

[]{#page_274 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="274"}Leith, Suzette. "Civ: Enlightenment...or the Black Death?"
*Stanford Daily*, May 17, 1966.

Lemoine, Blake. "Explaining Google." Medium, May 30, 2019.

Lepore, Jill. "The X-Man." *New Yorker*, September 11, 2023.

Leslie, Stuart W. "The Biggest 'Angel' of Them All: The Military and the
Making of Silicon Valley." In *Understanding Silicon Valley: The Anatomy
of an Entrepreneurial Region*, edited by Martin Kenney. Stanford,
Calif.: Stanford University Press, 2000.

Levinson, Robert. "The F-35's Global Supply Chain." *Businessweek*,
September 1, 2011.

Lévi-Strauss, Claude. *Tristes Tropiques*. Translated by John Weightman
and Doreen Weightman. New York: Penguin Books, 2012.

Levy, Steven. *Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution*. Sebastopol,
Calif.: O'Reilly, 2010.

Licklider, J. C. R. "Man-Computer Symbiosis." *IRE Transactions on Human
Factors in Electronics*, no. 1 (March 1960): 4--11.

Lindauer, Martin. "House-Hunting by Honey Bee Swarms." Translated by
P. Kirk Visscher, Karin Behrens, and Susanne Kuehnholz. *Journal of
Comparative Physiology* 37 (1955).

Link, Perry. "China: The Anaconda in the Chandelier." *New York Review
of Books*, April 11, 2002.

Linklater, Richard, dir. *Before Sunset*. 2004; Burbank, Calif.: Warner
Independent Pictures.

Long, Heather. "Who Is Jerome Powell, Trump's Pick for the Nation's Most
Powerful Economic Position?" *Washington Post*, November 2, 2017.

Lorenz, Konrad Z. *King Solomon's Ring*. New York: Thomas Y. Crowell,
2020.

Ludendorff, Erich. *The "Total" War*. Translated by Herbert Lawrence.
London: Friends of Europe, 1936.

Lundberg, Ferdinand. *America's 60 Families*. New York: Vanguard Press,
1937.

MacIntyre, Alasdair. *After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory*. 3rd ed.
South Bend, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 2007.

Madison, James. Letter from James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, June 19,
1786. In *The Writings of James Madison*, Vol. 2, edited by Gaillard
Hunt. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1901.

---------. *The Writings of James Madison*, Vol. 3, edited by Gaillard
Hunt. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1902.

Mallapaty, Smriti, Jeff Tollefson, and Carissa Wong. "Do Scientists Make
Good Presidents?" *Nature*, June 6, 2024.

[]{#page_275 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="275"}Martinez, Hannah J. "The Graduating Class of 2023 by the
Numbers." *Harvard Crimson*, 2023.

Martinson, Jane, and Larry Elliott. "The Year Dot.com Turned into
Dot.bomb." *Guardian*, December 29, 2000.

Maxwell, William J., ed. *James Baldwin: The FBI File*. New York:
Arcade, 2017.

Mazzucato, Mariana. *The Entrepreneurial State: Debunking Public vs.
Private Sector Myths*. London: Anthem Press, 2013.

McCarthy, J., M. L. Minsky, N. Rochester, and C. E. Shannon. "A Proposal
for the Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence."
August 31, 1955 (reproduced in *AI Magazine* 27, no. 4 (Winter 2006):
12--14).

McCullough, Brian. *How the Internet Happened: From Netscape to the
iPhone*. New York: Liveright, 2018.

McLaughlin, Andrew C., et al. *The Study of History in Schools: Report
to the American Historical Association*. New York: Macmillan, 1899.

McNeill, William H. "Western Civ in World Politics: What We Mean by the
West." *Orbis* 41, no. 4 (Autumn 1997): 513--24.

Meacham, Jon. *Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power.* New York: Random
House, 2013.

Mencken, H. L. "Ludendorff." *Atlantic*, June 1917.

The Metropolitan Museum of Art. *Monet's Years at Giverny: Beyond
Impressionism*. New York: Harry N. Abrams Publishers, 1978.

Meyer, Edith Patterson. *Dynamite and Peace: The Story of Alfred Nobel*.
Boston: Little, Brown, 1958.

Milgram, Stanley. *Obedience to Authority: An Experimental View*. New
York: Harper Perennial, 2009.

Mills, D. Quinn. "Who's to Blame for the Bubble?" *Harvard Business
Review*, May 2001.

Mirowski, Piotr, Juliette Love, Kory Mathewson, and Shakir Mohamed. "A
Robot Walks into a Bar: Can Language Models Serve as Creativity Support
Tools for Comedy? An Evaluation of LLMs' Humour Alignment with
Comedians." ArXiv, June 3, 2024.

Mishra, Pankaj. "Reorientations of Edward Said." *New Yorker*, April 19,
2021.

Mothershed, Airon A. "The \$435 Hammer and \$600 Toilet Seat Scandals:
Does Media Coverage of Procurement Scandals Lead to Procurement Reform?"
*Public Contract Law* 41, no. 4 (Summer 2012): 855--80.

Mouat, Jeremy, and Ian Phimister. "The Engineering of Herbert Hoover."
*Pacific Historical Review* 77, no. 4 (November 2008): 553--84.

Mozur, Paul. "Inside China's Dystopian Dreams: A.I., Shame, and Lots of
Cameras." *New York Times*, July 8, 2018.

[]{#page_276 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="276"}Mozur, Paul, and Adam Satariano. "A.I. Begins Ushering in an
Age of Killer Robots." *New York Times*, July 2, 2024.

Muehlhauser, Luke. "What Should We Learn from Past AI Forecasts?" Open
Philanthropy, May 2016.
[openphilanthropy.org/​research/​what-should-we-learn-from-past-ai-forecasts/](http://openphilanthropy.org/research/what-should-we-learn-from-past-ai-forecasts/){.char-url}.

Murray, Pauli. *Song in a Weary Throat: Memoir of an American
Pilgrimage*. New York: Harper & Row, 2018.

Mydans, Seth. "Singapore Announces 60 Percent Pay Raise for Ministers."
*New York Times*, April 9, 2007.

Nakashima, Ellen, and Reed Albergotti. "The FBI Wanted to Unlock the San
Bernardino Shooter's iPhone. It Turned to a Little-Known Australian
Firm." *Washington Post*, April 14, 2021.

National Defense Industrial Association (NDIA). "Army 'Rapid Equipping
Force' Taking Root, Chief Says." *National Defense*, October 1, 2006.

National Physical Laboratory. "Tracking People by Their 'Gait
Signature.' " September 20, 2012.

National Student Clearinghouse. "Computer Science Has Highest Increase
in Bachelor's Earned." National Student Clearinghouse, May 27, 2024.

Negroponte, Nicholas. "Big Idea Famine." *Journal of Design and
Science*, no. 3 (February 2018).

Neier, Aryeh. *Defending My Enemy: American Nazis, the Skokie Case, and
the Risks of Freedom*. New York: E. P. Dutton, 1979.

Nevers, Kevin. " 'He Didn't Hesitate': Airborne Medic Jim Butz Dies a
Hero in Afghanistan." *Chesterton* (Ind.) *Tribune*, October 3, 2011.

Newman, John. "Singapore's *Speak Mandarin Campaign*: The Educational
Argument." *Southeast Asian Journal of Social Science* 14, no. 2 (1986):
52--67.

*New York Times*. "Admiral Rickover and the Trinkets." May 24, 1985.

---------. "The Dot-Com Bubble Bursts." December 24, 2000.

---------. "Lehman: Rickover Had a 'Fall from Grace.' " May 22, 1985.

---------. "Rickover Tells Lehman He Gave Away Gifts." June 11, 1985.

Ng, Patrick Chin Leong. "A Study of Attitudes Towards the Speak Mandarin
Campaign in Singapore." *Intercultural Communication Studies* 23, no. 3
(2014): 53--65.

Nixon, Richard. "Address to the Nation on the War in Vietnam." November
3, 1969. Washington, D.C.

Noonan, Peggy. "How Trump Lost Half of Washington." *Wall Street
Journal*, April 25, 2019.

---------. "A Six-Month AI Pause? No, Longer Is Needed." *Wall Street
Journal*, March 30, 2023.

[]{#page_277 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="277"}---------. "The Uglyfication of Everything." *Wall Street
Journal*, May 2, 2024.

Nussbaum, Martha. "Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism." *Boston Review*,
October 1, 1994.

Nye, Joseph S., Jr. *Soft Power: The Means to Success in World
Politics*. New York: PublicAffairs, 2004.

Office of the Under Secretary of Defense. *U.S. Department of Defense
Fiscal Year 2024 Budget Request*. March 2023.
comptroller.defense.gov/​Budget-Materials/​Budget2024.

Ohno, Taiichi. *Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale
Production*. Portland, Ore.: Productivity Press, 1988.

Olusoga, David. "Civilisation Revisited." *Guardian*, February 3, 2018.

Oppenheimer, J. Robert. "Physics in the Contemporary World." *Bulletin
of the Atomic Scientists* 4, no. 3 (1948): 65--86.

Orton, Brad. "National Performance Review." October 26, 1993, Old
Executive Office Building, Washington, D.C., C-SPAN.

Orwell, George. *1984*. New York: Penguin, 2023.

Osnos, Evan. "What Did China's First Daughter Find in America?" *New
Yorker*, April 6, 2015.

---------. "Xi Jinping's Historic Bid at the Communist Party Congress."
*New Yorker*, October 23, 2022.

Packer, George. "No Death, No Taxes." *New Yorker*, November 20, 2011.

Packer, Herbert L., et al. *The Study of Education at Stanford: Report
to the University*. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University, November
1968.

Pagé, Suzanne, Marianne Mathieu, and Angeline Scherf.
*Monet---Mitchell*. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 2022.

Parisi, Giorgio. *In a Flight of Starlings: The Wonder of Complex
Systems*. Translated by Simon Carnell. New York: Penguin Books, 2023.

Parsons, Talcott. "Certain Primary Sources and Patterns of Aggression in
the Social Structure of the Western World." In *Essays in Sociological
Theory*, Rev. ed. Glencoe, Ill.: Free Press, 1954.

Perlow, Leslie A., Constance Noonan Hadley, and Eunice Eun. "Stop the
Meeting Madness." *Harvard Business Review*, July--August 2017.

Perlroth, Nicole. "The Groupon IPO: By the Numbers." *Forbes*, June 2,
2011.

Perlstein, Rick. *Nixonland: The Rise of a President and the Fracturing
of America*. New York: Scribner, 2008.

Perry, Robert. *A History of Satellite Reconnaissance*. U.S. National
Reconnaissance Office, October 1973.

Peters, Jay. "IBM Will No Longer Offer, Develop, or Research Facial
Recognition Technology." *Verge*, June 8, 2020.

[]{#page_278 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="278"}Pfeiffer, John. *The Thinking Machine*. Philadelphia: J. B.
Lippincott, 1962.

Pinker, Steven. *The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has
Declined*. New York: Penguin Books, 2011.

---------. *Enlightenment Now*. New York: Penguin Books, 2018.

Plant, Raymond. "Jürgen Habermas and the Idea of Legitimation Crisis."
*European Journal of Political Research* 10 (1982): 341--52.

Plato. *The Republic*. Translated by Desmond Lee. New York: Penguin
Books, 2007.

Polenberg, Richard, ed. *In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer: The
Security Clearance Hearing*. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press,
2002.

Polmar, Norman, and Thomas B. Allen. *Rickover: Controversy and Genius:
A Biography*. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1982.

Porter, Catherine. "Cheers, Fears, and 'Le Wokisme': How the World Sees
U.S. Campus Protests." *New York Times*, May 3, 2024.

Powell, Jerome. "The Honorable Jerome H. Powell." Interview by David M.
Rubenstein. Economic Club of Washington D.C., February 7, 2023.

Pratt, Mary Louise. "Humanities for the Future: The Western Culture
Debate at Stanford." In *The Liberal Arts Tradition*, edited by Bruce
Kimball. Lanham, Md.: University Press of America, 2010.

Quinn, Roswell. "Rethinking Antibiotic Research and Development: World
War II and the Penicillin Collaborative." *American Journal of Public
Health* 103, no. 3 (2013): 426--34.

Raffoul, Amanda, et al. "Social Media Platforms Generate Billions of
Dollars in Revenue from U.S. Youth: Findings from a Simulated Model."
*PLoS ONE*, December 27, 2023.

Rainey, Clint. "P(doom) Is AI's Latest Apocalypse Metric. Here's How to
Calculate Your Score." *Fast Company*, December 7, 2023.

Rajan, Raghuram, and Julie Wulf. "The Flattening Firm: Evidence from
Panel Data on the Changing Nature of Corporate Hierarchies." Working
Paper No. 9633. National Bureau of Economic Research, April 2003.

Ramzy, Austin. "Xi Jinping on 'House of Cards' and Hemingway." *New York
Times*, September 23, 2015.

Rawls, John. *Political Liberalism*. New York: Columbia University
Press, 2005.

---------. "The Priority of Right and Ideas of the Good." *Philosophy
and Public Affairs* 17, no. 4 (Autumn 1988): 253--76.

Remnick, David. "The Scholar of Comedy." *New Yorker*, April 28, 2024.

Renan, Ernest. *What Is a Nation? And Other Political Writings*.
Translated and edited by M. F. N. Giglioli. New York: Columbia
University Press, 2018.

Reynolds, Winston A. "The Burning Ships of Hernán Cortés." *Hispania*
42, no. 3 (September 1959): 317--24.

[]{#page_279 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="279"}Rickover, Hyman G. Interview by Diane Sawyer. *60 Minutes*,
CBS, 1984.

Rigden, John S. *Rabi: Scientist and Citizen*. New York: Basic Books,
1987.

Rigolot, François. "Curiosity, Contingency, and Cultural Diversity:
Montaigne's Readings at the Vatican Library." *Renaissance Quarterly*
64, no. 3 (Fall 2011): 847--74.

Rogers, Alex. "The MRAP: Brilliant Buy, or Billions Wasted?" *Time*,
October 2, 2012.

Rohlfs, Chris, and Ryan Sullivan. "Why the \$600,000 Vehicles Aren't
Worth the Money." *Foreign Affairs*, July 26, 2012.

Roose, Kevin. "Bing's A.I. Chat: 'I Want to Be Alive.' " *New York
Times*, February 16, 2023.

Rosenbaum, David E. "Remaking Government: Few Disagree with Clinton's
Overall Goal, but History Shows the Obstacles Ahead." *New York Times*,
September 8, 1993.

Rusli, Evelyn M. "Zynga's Value, at \$7 Billion, Is Milestone for Social
Gaming." *New York Times*, December 15, 2011.

Sabato, Larry J. *Feeding Frenzy: How Attack Journalism Has Transformed
American Politics*. New York: Free Press, 1993.

Said, Edward. *Orientalism*. New York: Vintage Books, 1979.

Sallust. *The War with Catiline*. Translated by J. C. Rolfe and revised
by John T. Ramsey. Loeb Classical Library. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard
University Press, 2013.

Salovey, Peter. "Free Speech, Personified." *New York Times*,
November 26, 2017.

Sandberg-Diment, Erik. "Hardware Review: Apple Weighs in with Its
Macintosh." *New York Times*, January 24, 1984.

Sandel, Michael J. *Liberalism and the Limits of Justice*. 2nd ed.
Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 1998.

---------. *What Money Can't Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets*. New
York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2012.

Sapolsky, Harvey M., and Michael Schrage. "More Than Technology Needed
To Defeat Roadside Bombs." *National Defense*, April 2012.

Savitz, Eric J. "Groupon Stock Craters. The Turnaround Is Taking Longer
Than Hoped." *Barron's*, November 10, 2023.

Sax, Boris. *Imaginary Animals: The Monstrous, the Wondrous and the
Human*. London: Reaktion Books, 2013.

Scarborough, Rowan. "Soldier Battling Bombs Irked by Software Switch."
*Washington Times*, July 22, 2012.

Schelling, Thomas. *Arms and Influence*. New Haven, Conn.: Yale
University Press, 1966.

[]{#page_280 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="280"}Schlosser, Eric. *Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the
Damascus Accident, and the Illusion of Safety*. New York: Penguin Press,
2013.

Schödel, Kathrin. "Normalising Cultural Memory? The 'Walser-Bubis
Debate' and Martin Walser's Novel *Ein springender Brunnen*." In
*Recasting German Identity: Culture, Politics, and Literature in the
Berlin Republic*, edited by Stuart Taberner and Frank Finlay. Rochester,
N.Y.: Camden House, 2002.

Schulz, Kathryn. "The Many Lives of Pauli Murray." *New Yorker*, April
10, 2017.

Scruton, Roger. "Animal Rights." *City Journal* (Summer 2000).

Seeley, Thomas D. *Honeybee Democracy*. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton
University Press, 2010.

---------. "Martin Lindauer (1918--2008)." *Nature*, December 11, 2008.

Seeley, T.D., S. Kunholz, and R.H. Seeley. "An Early Chapter in
Behavioral Physiology and Sociobiology: The Science of Martin Lindauer."
*Journal of Comparative Physiology*, 188 (July 2002).

Sennett, Richard. "The Identity Myth." *New York Times*, January 30,
1994.

Shaban, Hamza. "Google Parent Alphabet Reports Soaring Ad Revenue,
Despite YouTube Backlash." *Washington Post*, February 1, 2018.

Shane, Leo, III. "Why One Lawmaker Keeps Pushing for a New Military
Draft." *Military Times*, March 30, 2015.

Shane, Scott, and Daisuke Wakabayashi. " 'The Business of War': Google
Employees Protest Work for the Pentagon." *New York Times*, April 4,
2018.

Shatz, Adam. " 'Orientalism,' Then and Now." *New York Review of Books*,
May 20, 2019.

Shell, Jason. "How the IED Won: Dispelling the Myth of Tactical Success
and Innovation." *War on the Rocks*, May 1, 2017.

Sherwood, Harriet. "Hamas Says 250 People Held Hostage in Gaza."
*Guardian*, October 16, 2023.

Shiller, Robert J. *Irrational Exuberance*. New York: Crown, 2006.

Sigel, Efrem. "Harvard, Yale Students to Issue New Invitations to Gov.
Wallace." *Harvard Crimson*, September 25, 1963.

---------. "New Wallace Invitation Expected at Yale Today." *Harvard
Crimson*, September 24, 1963.

Silver, Nate. *On the Edge: The Art of Risking Everything*. New York:
Penguin Press, 2024.

Simon, Herbert A. *The New Science of Management Decision*. New York:
Harper & Brothers, 1960.

Simon, Herbert A., and Allen Newell. "Heuristic Problem Solving: The
Next []{#page_281 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="281"}Advance in Operations Research." *Operations Research* 6,
no. 1 (January--February 1958): 1--10.

Simonite, Tom. "Behind the Rise of China's Facial-Recognition Giants."
*Wired*. September 3, 2019.

Sims, David. "No, Really, I'm Awful." *Atlantic*, April 26, 2023.

Singer, Peter. *Animal Liberation: A New Ethics for Our Treatment of
Animals*. New York: New York Review Books, 1975.

Sledge, Matt, and Ramon Antonio Vargas. "Palantir's Crime-Fighting
Software Causes Stir in New Orleans; NOPD Rebuts Civil Liberties
Concerns." *Times-Picayune*, March 1, 2018.

Slomovic, Anna. *Anteing Up: The Government's Role in the
Microelectronics Industry*. Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND Corporation,
December 16, 1988.

Smith, Emily Esfahani. "The Friendship That Changed Art." *Artists
Magazine* 35, no. 6 (July/August 2018).

Smith, James K. A. "Reconsidering 'Civil Religion.' " *Comment*, May 11,
2017.

Smith, Jean Edward. *FDR*. New York: Random House, 2008.

Sneed, Annie. "Computer Beats Go Champion for First Time." *Scientific
American*, January 27, 2016.

Soapes, Thomas. Interview with Hans A. Bethe. Dwight D. Eisenhower
Library, Abilene, Kans., November 3, 1977.

Sokolove, Michael. "How to Lose \$850 Million---and Not Really Care."
*New York Times Magazine*, June 9, 2002.

Solomon, Charles. "Two States---One Nation?" *Los Angeles Times*,
November 17, 1991.

Somers, James. "The Man Who Would Teach Machines to Think." *Atlantic*,
November 15, 2013.

Somerville, Mary. *On the Connexion of the Physical Sciences*. London:
John Murray, 1834.

Spengler, Oswald. *The Decline of the West*. New York: Oxford University
Press, 1991.

*Spiegel*. "Martin Walser Bereut Verhalten Gegenüber Ignatz Bubis."
March 16, 2007.

Spitz, Lewis W. "Beyond Western Civilization: Rebuilding the Survey."
*History Teacher* 10, no. 4 (August 1977): 515--24.

Stanley, Jay. "New Orleans Program Offers Lessons in Pitfalls of
Predictive Policing." *American Civil Liberties Union*, 2018.

Starkie, Thomas. *A Practical Treatise on the Law of Evidence, and
Digest of Proofs, in Civil and Criminal Proceedings*, Vol. 1. Boston:
Wells & Lilly, 1826.

[]{#page_282 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="282"}Stewart, Emilie B. "Survey of PRC Drone Swarm Inventions."
China Aerospace Studies Institute, U.S. Air Force, October 2023.

Stout, David. "Solomon Asch Is Dead at 88; A Leading Social
Psychologist." *New York Times*, February 29, 1996.

Strauss, Leo. *What Is Political Philosophy?* Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1959.

Suleyman, Mustafa. *The Coming Wave: Technology, Power, and the
Twenty-First Century's Greatest Dilemma*. With Michael Bhaskar. New
York: Crown, 2023.

Sullivan, Walter. "65% in Test Blindly Obey Order to Inflict Pain." *New
York Times*, October 26, 1963.

Summers, Larry. Interview by David Remnick. *New Yorker Radio Hour*.
NPR, May 3, 2024.

Surowiecki, James. *The Wisdom of Crowds*. New York: Anchor Books, 2005.

Sutter, Daniel. "Media Scrutiny and the Quality of Public Officials."
*Public Choice* 129 (2006): 25--40.

Swensen, David. "A Conversation with David Swensen." Interview by Robert
E. Rubin. Council on Foreign Relations, November 14, 2017.

Tarnoff, Ben. "Tech Workers Versus the Pentagon." *Jacobin*, June 6,
2018.

Taylor, Paul. "How to Spend Europe's Defense Bonanza Intelligently."
*Politico*, September 2, 2022.

Tetlock, Philip E. *Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can
We Know?* Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2005.

Thomas, Dylan. *The Collected Poems of Dylan Thomas: Original Edition*.
New York: New Directions, 2010.

Thomas, Sean. "Are We Ready for P(doom)?" *Spectator*, March 4, 2024.

Tiku, Nitasha. "The Google Engineer Who Thinks the Company's AI Has Come
to Life." *Washington Post*, June 11, 2022.

---------. "Google Fired Engineer Who Said Its AI Was Sentient."
*Washington Post*, July 22, 2022.

*Time*. "Cosmoclast Einstein." July 1, 1946.

---------. "Man and Woman of the Year: The Middle Americans." January 5,
1970.

---------. "Patterns in Chaos." Review of *The Decline of the West:
Perspectives of World History*, by Oswald Spengler. December 10, 1928.

---------. "The Press: In a Corner, on the 13th Floor." July 22, 1946.

---------. "Public Figures and Their Private Lives." August 22, 1969.

Treaster, Joseph B. "Brewster Doubts Fair Black Trials." *New York
Times*, April 25, 1970.

Turchin, Peter. *End Times: Elites, Counter-elites, and the Path of
Political Disintegration*. New York: Penguin Press, 2023.

[]{#page_283 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="283"}Tussman, Joseph. "The Collegiate Rite of Passage." In
*Experiment and Innovation: New Directions in Education at the
University of California*, July 1968.

U.S. Department of Defense. *Military Specification Cookie Mix Dry*,
MIL-C-43205G.

U.S. Department of Energy. *The Manhattan Project: Making the Atomic
Bomb*. January 1999.

U.S. Department of the Interior. National Register of Historic Places
Inventory. *Historic Hutterite Colonies Thematic Resources*. 1979.

U.S. Department of the Treasury. "Treasury Identifies Eight Chinese Tech
Firms as Part of the Chinese Military-Industrial Complex." December 16,
2021. home.treasury.gov/​news/​press-releases/​jy0538.

U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology. "Technology
Evaluation."

Vance, Ashlee. *Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic
Future*. New York: HarperCollins, 2015.

Veblen, Thorstein. *The Theory of the Leisure Class*. Edited by Martha
Banta. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009.

Vinograd, Cassandra, and Isabel Kershner. "Israel's Attackers Took About
240 Hostages." *New York Times*, November 20, 2023.

Voltaire. *Zadig; or, The Book of Fate, an Oriental History*. London,
1749.

Wakefield, Dan. "William F. Buckley Jr.: Portrait of a Complainer."
*Esquire*, January 1, 1961.

Wallace, George C. "Inaugural Address." *Alabama Department of Archives
and History*. Montgomery, Ala.: January 14, 1963.

Wallace, Robin. "Why Beethoven's Loss of Hearing Added Dimensions to His
Music." *Zócalo Public Square*, July 28, 2019.
zocalopublicsquare.org/​why-beethovens-loss-of-hearing-added-new-dimensions-to-his-music.

Watlington, Emily. " 'Monet/Mitchell' Shows How the Impressionist's
Blindness Charted a Path for Abstraction." *Art in America*, May 12,
2023.

Weisgerber, Marcus. "F-35 Production Set to Quadruple as Massive Factory
Retools." *Defense One*, May 6, 2016.

Wendling, Mike. "Xi Jinping: Chinese Leader's Surprising Ties to Rural
Iowa." BBC, November 15, 2023.

Whang, Oliver. "How to Tell if Your A.I. Is Conscious." *New York
Times*, September 18, 2023.

White, Debbie. "Drones Branch Out To Swarming Through Forests." *Times*
(London), May 5, 2022.

White, Richard D., Jr. "Executive Reorganization, Theodore Roosevelt,
and the Keep Commission." *Administrative Theory and Praxis* 24, no. 3
(2002): 507--18.

[]{#page_284 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="284"}Whyte, Kenneth. *Hoover: An Extraordinary Life in
Extraordinary Times*. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2017.

Wigner, Eugene. "The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the
Natural Sciences." *Communications in Pure and Applied Mathematics* 13,
no. 1 (February 1960): 1--14.

Winston, Ali. "Palantir Has Secretly Been Using New Orleans to Test Its
Predictive Policing Technology." *Verge*, February 27, 2018.

Wong, Julia Carrie. " 'We Won't Be War Profiteers': Microsoft Workers
Protest \$48M Army Contract." *Guardian*, February 22, 2019.

Wortman, Marc. *Admiral Hyman Rickover: Engineer of Power*. New Haven,
Conn.: Yale University Press, 2022.

Yglesias, Matthew. "Pay Congress More." *Vox*, May 10, 2019.

Yudkowsky, Eliezer. "Pausing AI Development Isn't Enough. We Need to
Shut It All Down." *Time*, March 29, 2023.

Zachary, G. Pascal. *Endless Frontier: Vannevar Bush, Engineer of the
American Century*. New York: Free Press, 1997.

Zelinsky, Nathaniel. "Challenging the Unchallengeable (Sort Of)." *Yale
Alumni Magazine*, January/February 2015.

Zhang, Taisu, Graham Webster, and Orville Schell. "What Xi Jinping's
Seattle Speech Might Mean for the U.S." *Foreign Policy*, September 23,
2015.

Zhou, Xin, et al. "Swarm of Micro Flying Robots in the Wild." *Science
Robotics* 7, no. 66 (2022).
:::
