::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_57 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="57"}Chapter Five {#chapter-five .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [The Abandonment of Belief]{.char-ccust50} {#the-abandonment-of-belief .para-ct}

I[[n 1976, Frank Collin, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}an ambitious
leader in the small but resilient Nazi Party of the United States,
planned a march in Skokie, Illinois---an attempt to raise the profile of
his organization and build support for his cause. The town, many of
whose residents were Jewish and had lived through the war, vehemently
opposed the demonstration, and the case went to the courts. The American
Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) came to the legal defense of Collin and his
fellow Nazis on First Amendment grounds---a move that would be almost
unthinkable today. Aryeh Neier, the national executive director of the
ACLU at the time, received thousands of letters condemning his
organization's decision to defend the free speech rights of Nazis.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText147}Neier was born into a Jewish family in
Berlin in 1937 and fled from Germany to England along with his parents
as a child. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText148}He later estimated that
thirty thousand ACLU members left the organization as a result of its
decision to come to the legal defense of the Nazi demonstrators.

His interest in protecting Collin's right to free speech under the First
Amendment was not rooted in an unthinking commitment to liberalism or
its values. He instead held two seemingly contradictory yet deeply felt
and genuine beliefs---in the abhorrence of Collin's views and in the
importance of defending his right to express them against infringement
by the state. Neier was interested and willing to []{#page_58 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="58"}stand up for an
ideal---something above and beyond his own interests, and one that many
would have been content to applaud him for setting aside.
"[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText149}To defend myself, I must restrain power
with freedom, even if the temporary beneficiaries are the enemies of
freedom," he later wrote. His beliefs had a cost, and their defense
required putting the credibility of his organization, and himself, at
risk.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText150}A decade before, in September 1963, a
similar clash arose in New Haven, Connecticut, where George Wallace, the
governor of Alabama and vehement opponent of integration, had been
invited to speak by the Yale Political Union, a student organization.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText151}Earlier that year, at his inaugural
address in January, Wallace had told a crowd in Montgomery, Alabama,
that integration must be resisted as a form of "communistic
amalgamation," one that would result in a "mongrel unit of one under a
single all powerful government." It was in that speech that Wallace said
that he would be drawing a "line in the dust," calling for "segregation
now, segregation tomorrow, and segregation forever," to cries of support
from the crowd.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText152}His potential arrival in New Haven had
engulfed the city. Mayor Richard C. Lee decided to send a telegram to
Wallace letting him know that he was "officially unwelcome"---an attempt
to cancel the event, which many thought would spark violence. Earlier
that month, a group of four members of the Ku Klux Klan had used
dynamite to bomb the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama,
killing four girls and injuring nearly two dozen.

Others, however, urged the university not to prevent Wallace from
speaking. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText153}Pauli Murray, who was pursuing
a doctorate at Yale Law School, wrote a letter to Kingman Brewster Jr.,
the university's president, asking him to permit Wallace to address
students on campus. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText154}Murray, born in
Baltimore in 1910, was a civil rights activist who worked for a period
as an attorney at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, the New York
law firm, and later taught at the Ghana School of Law. She founded,
along with Betty Friedan and others, the National Organization for Women
in 1966. For Murray, the []{#page_59 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="59"}question of whether Wallace should be
permitted to speak on campus was personal.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText155}Her father had been committed to the
Crownsville State Hospital for the Negro Insane in Maryland, where he
was killed in 1922 after "a white guard taunted him with racist
epithets, dragged him to the basement, and beat him to death with a
baseball bat," according to one account.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText156}Murray's maternal grandmother was born
into slavery in North Carolina.

Her letter to Brewster was nonetheless direct and brimming with
conviction and clarity. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText157}She argued that
even though she herself had "suffered from the evils of racial
segregation," a "possibility of violence is not sufficient reason in law
to prevent an individual from exercising his constitutional right."
Murray anticipated the risk of allowing for what would later be
described as a "heckler's veto" over the speech rights of others---the
possibility that debate would be silenced as the result of a fear of the
reaction, even a violent one, of a listener. In the modern era, the veto
is, of course, wielded with frequency by those who profess offense or
discomfort when faced with views other than their own.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText158}The Yale Political Union eventually
rescinded its invitation to Wallace under pressure from Brewster.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

Both Neier and Murray, in different contexts and different decades, not
only defended the unpopular but risked their reputations, as well as the
disapproval of their peers and the public, to stand up for a sort of
hard belief, one that was not vulnerable to being abandoned and
rationalized away. For Neier and Murray, something more than their own
self-preservation and advancement was at stake. Similar tests have
presented themselves more recently. But our culture has stepped back
from nurturing and encouraging such radical acts of intellectual
courage, leaving us with leaders who are increasingly unsure of
themselves and unwilling, or perhaps unable, to place much at risk.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText159}In 2023, three university presidents, of
Harvard, the University of []{#page_60 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="60"}Pennsylvania, and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, were called before Congress in response to
protests against Israel's invasion of Gaza following the killing of more
than eleven hundred people in Israel and the taking of some 250
hostages. The testimony of the university presidents---two of whom
ultimately resigned from their positions---raised issues similar to
those that arose in Skokie and New Haven decades ago, including the
familiar tension between protecting free speech rights and guarding
against attempts to alienate and subjugate the other. Their cautious
responses, attempting to preserve space for free speech, captured
national and international attention. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText160}To
many, the presidents were far too tepid in articulating their opposition
to overtly hostile calls and intimidation of students on campus.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText161}As Maureen Dowd pointed out in the *New
York Times*, Elizabeth Magill, president of the University of
Pennsylvania, "offered a chilling bit of legalese" when she was asked
whether calls for the genocide of Jews constituted harassment. Magill
responded, "It is a context-dependent decision."

The presidents were wholly unaware of the internal contradictions of
their position---contradictions stemming from their commitment to free
speech, on the one hand, but also the eagerness of their institutions in
various other contexts to carefully patrol the use of language for fear
of causing offense. Their halting testimony was marked by cool precision
and calculation---embodying the archetype of the new administrative
class, clinical and careful and above all without feeling.

The testimony exposed a fundamental challenge that we, in the United
States and the West, face. A broad swath of leaders, from academic
administrators and politicians to executives in Silicon Valley, have for
years often been punished mercilessly for publicly mustering anything
approaching an authentic belief. The public arena---and the shallow and
petty assaults against those who dare to do something other than enrich
themselves---has become so unforgiving that the republic is left with a
significant roster of ineffectual, []{#page_61 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="61"}empty vessels
whose ambition one would forgive if there were any genuine belief
structure lurking within.

The unrelenting scrutiny to which contemporary public figures are now
subjected has also had the counterproductive effect of dramatically
reducing the ranks of individuals interested in venturing into politics
and adjacent domains. Advocates of our current system of ruthless
exposure of the private lives of often marginally public figures make
the case that transparency, one of those words that has nearly become
meaningless from overuse, is our best defense against the abuse of
power. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText162}But few seem interested in the
very real and often perverse incentives, and disincentives, we have
constructed for those engaging in public life.

The stifling regime of disclosure and punishment for authentic
intellectual risk-taking that we impose on would-be leaders leaves
little room for capable and original thinkers whose principal motivation
is something other than self-promotion, and who often lack a willingness
to subject themselves to the theater and vicissitudes of the modern
public sphere. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText163}It is "the proliferation
of frenzies and expansion of the range of personal issues subject to
scrutiny," as one political scientist who has attempted to measure the
fall in quality of political candidates as a result of increasingly
invasive media coverage of public figures has put it, that "raises the
expected cost to good people of running for public office."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText164}In 1991, Larry Sabato, a professor of
politics at the University of Virginia, joked that we were not far from
the moment at which the press would pounce on a candidate "for using an
express checkout lane when purchasing more than the ten-item limit."

The expectations of disclosure have increased steadily for more than
half a century and have brought essential information to the voting
public. They have also contorted our relationship with our elected
officials and other leaders, requiring an intimacy that is not always
related to assessing their ability to deliver outcomes.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText165}Americans, in particular, "have
overmoralized public office," as an editorial []{#page_62 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="62"}in *Time* magazine
warned decades ago in 1969, and "tend to equate public greatness with
private goodness." The risk is that the political realm, and the
empowerment that one can feel by participating in the democratic
process, becomes more about our own psychological need for
self-expression than actual governance. Those who look to the political
arena to nourish their soul and sense of self, who rely too heavily on
their internal life, finding expression in people they may never meet,
will be left disappointed. We think we want and need to *know* our
leaders. But what about results? The likability of our elected leaders
is essentially a modern preoccupation and has become a national
obsession, yet at what cost?

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText166}In 1952, Richard Nixon, who was then
General Dwight Eisenhower's vice presidential running mate, gave what
would become known as the Checkers speech, after his black-and-white
cocker spaniel, disclosing to the American public that he owned a home
in Whittier, California, at a cost of \$13,000, on which he had an
outstanding mortgage of \$3,000. He had been accused of improperly using
political funds for personal benefit and had felt the need to try to
clear the air. In that moment, the country was for the first time
introduced to a new and striking level of granularity in the disclosures
that it required from its politicians, and perhaps the beginning of a
decline in the quality of those willing to come forward and submit to
the spectacle. His wife reportedly asked Nixon, affecting a certain
naïveté, faux or otherwise, "Why do you have to tell people how little
we have and how much we owe?" []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText167}Her
husband replied that politicians were destined to "live in a goldfish
bowl." But the systematic elimination of private spaces, even for our
public figures, has consequences, and ultimately further incentivizes
only those given to theatrics, and who crave a stage, to run for office.
The candidates who remain willing to subject themselves to the glare of
public service are, of course, often interested more in the power of the
platform, with its celebrity and potential to be monetized in other
ways, than the actual work of government.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
[]{#page_63 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="63"} • • •
:::

The current system of disclosure and scrutiny to which we subject our
leaders is not limited to university presidents or elected officials. It
has also permeated the ranks of Silicon Valley and the corporate world.
An entire generation of executives and entrepreneurs that came of age in
recent decades was essentially robbed of an opportunity to form actual
views about the world---both descriptive, what it is, and normative,
what it should be---leaving us with a managerial class whose principal
purpose often seems to be little more than ensuring its own survival and
re-creation.

The atrophying of the mind, and the self-editing that often accompanies
such decay, are corrosive to real thought. The result is that
corporations selling consumer goods feel the need to develop and indeed
broadcast their views on issues affecting our moral or interior lives,
while most software companies with the capacity and, perhaps, duty to
shape our geopolitics remain conspicuously
silent.[\[\*1\]](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c005_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015e95 "footnote"){#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e95
.char-fnref .footnote_ref .noteref epub:type="noteref"
role="doc-noteref"}

Palantir builds software and artificial intelligence capabilities for
defense and intelligence agencies in the United States and its allies
across Europe and around the world. Our work has been controversial, and
not everyone will agree with our decision to build products that enable
offensive weapons systems. But we have made a choice, notwithstanding
its costs and complications.

By contrast, the congressional testimony by the university presidents
exposed the bargain that contemporary elite culture has made []{#page_64
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="64"}to
retain power---that belief itself, in anything other than oneself
perhaps, is dangerous and to be avoided. The Silicon Valley
establishment has grown so suspicious and fearful of an entire category
of thought, including contemplations on culture or national identity,
that anything approaching a worldview is seen as a liability.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText169}The shallow and thinly veiled nihilism
of a corporate slogan such as "don't be evil," which Google adopted when
the company went public in 2004 and later exchanged for the similarly
banal "do the right thing," captures the views of a generation of
extraordinarily talented software engineers who were taught to prize the
identification of and resistance to evil over the more difficult and
often messy task of navigating the world in all of its imperfection.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText170}As the French author Pascal Bruckner has
written, when we lack "the power to do anything, sensitivity becomes our
main aim," and thus "the aim is not so much to do anything, as to be
judged."

The problem is that those who say nothing wrong often say nothing much
at all. An overly timid engagement with the debates of our time will rob
one of the ferocity of feeling that is necessary to move the world.
"[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText171}If you do not feel it, you will not get
it by hunting for it," Goethe reminds us in *Faust*. "You will never
touch the hearts of others, if it does not emerge from your own."

Our culture has for the most part successfully pounded down any notes or
errant hints of zeal and feeling in many of those leading our most
significant institutions. And what remains beneath the polish is often
unclear. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText172}We later learned that
WilmerHale, one of the nation's most respected law firms, prepared and
advised both Claudine Gay of Harvard and Elizabeth Magill of the
University of Pennsylvania for their testimony before Congress. And both
of them lost their jobs. The clinical approach of the presidents, and
their trust in legal specialists to guide them in what would essentially
become a referendum on their convictions, are reminders of the perils of
delegating the waging of political battle to legal referees at its
margins. Others suggested that the questioning and treatment of the
college []{#page_65 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="65"}presidents was unfair. It might have
been. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText173}But as Lawrence Summers, the
former president of Harvard, correctly pointed out, even if we
acknowledge that the congressional inquisition of the college presidents
was a form of "performance art," we should expect more from our leaders
on that significant of a stage.

When we require the systematic elimination of the thorns, barbs, and
flaws that necessarily accompany genuine human contact and confrontation
with the world, we lose something else. The work of Erving Goffman, a
Canadian-born sociologist, on what he described as "total institutions,"
is instructive here. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText174}In a collection of
essays published in 1961 titled *Asylums*, Goffman defined such
institutions, which include prisons and mental hospitals, as places
"where a large number of like-situated individuals, cut off from the
wider society for an appreciable period of time, together lead an
enclosed, formally administered round of life." The same might be said
of some of our nation's most elite universities, which have nominally
and belatedly opened their doors to a far broader swath of participants
but whose internal cultures remain remarkably cloistered and walled off
from the world.

In the late 1960s, an earlier generation of university administrators,
including Kingman Brewster Jr. at Yale, took a different path when it
came to confronting and embracing a challenge to entrenched power and
elite privilege. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText175}A series of civil
rights demonstrations involving the Black Panthers and others engulfed
Yale's campus in May 1970, and at least two bombs exploded in the
school's ice hockey rink. There was a willingness, however, by Brewster
and others to venture into the ethical morass of the moment in a way
that would ensure a swift and summary cancellation in the United States
today. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText176}In April 1970, at a meeting of
hundreds of Yale faculty members in New Haven, Connecticut, Brewster
said that he was "skeptical of the ability of black revolutionaries to
achieve a fair trial anywhere in the United States," according to a
report in the *Times* the following day.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText177}He had ventured into the conflagration,
not away []{#page_66 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="66"}from it. Spiro Agnew, the vice president
of the United States, promptly called for Brewster to resign. He did
not, however, and Brewster not only kept his job but ultimately emerged
stronger. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText178}As Ralph Waldo Emerson once
said, "When you strike at a king, you must kill him."

Allan Bloom, who taught at the University of Chicago, more than three
decades ago articulated the challenge that we currently face in his 1987
polemic, *The Closing of the American Mind*.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText179}Our commitment to "openness," a vital
and uncontroversially necessary good, he wrote, "has driven out the
local deities, leaving only the speechless, meaningless country." Bloom
continued: "There is no immediate, sensual experience of the nation's
meaning or its project, which would provide the basis for adult
reflection on regimes and statesmanship. Students now arrive at the
university ignorant and cynical about our political heritage, lacking
the wherewithal to be either inspired by it or seriously critical of
it." In the late 1980s, Bloom was focused on the interior and
intellectual lives of university students. It is now those students who
are our administrators. And the culture in which those administrators
have been raised has been unforgiving, systematically punishing anything
approaching moral courage and incentivizing its opposite. In this way,
the university presidents are victims of their and our collective focus
on the policing of language and by extension thought, combined with the
enforcement of elaborate yet unpublished codes regarding speech and
behavior---that together deprive individuals of the habit and instinct
required to develop sincerely held and authentic beliefs, as well as the
gall to express them.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText180}Perry Link, the former professor of East
Asian studies at Princeton whose work in the 1990s was vital in exposing
the massacre at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, has noted that the Soviet
leadership went to great lengths to document and detail the
proscriptions of the day, even publishing "periodic handbooks that
listed which []{#page_67 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="67"}specific phrases were out of
bounds."[\[\*2\]](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c005_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015e9a "footnote"){#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e9a
.char-fnref .footnote_ref .noteref epub:type="noteref"
role="doc-noteref"} The means by which the Chinese government patrolled
the boundaries of speech, however, were far more subversive in Link's
view, and in many ways more closely approximate the contemporary model
of attempts to constrain speech in the United States. Link wrote that
the Chinese government "rejected these more mechanical methods" of
censorship used by the Soviet regime "in favor of an essentially
psychological control system," in which each individual must assess the
risk of a statement against what Link describes as "a dull,
well-entrenched leeriness" of disapproval by the state.

Amid the campus protests across the United States in 2024 following
Israel's invasion and bombardment of Gaza, a growing number of student
protesters began concealing their faces with scarves and masks. Their
rationale was that exposure of their identities would jeopardize their
futures, from depriving them of job opportunities to facing criticism on
social media. A student protester at Northwestern, in Evanston,
Illinois, told a reporter in May 2024 that the potential costs were too
great to risk being identified. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText182}If I
give my name, I lose my future," he said.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText183}But is a belief that has no cost really
a belief? The protective veil of anonymity may instead be robbing this
generation of an opportunity to develop an instinct for real ownership
over an idea, of the rewards of victory in the public square as well as
the costs of defeat.

Michael Sandel, a professor at Harvard, anticipated the contradictions
that arise from our fierce commitment in the West to classical
liberalism, and its elevation if not preference for individual rights at
the expense of anything approaching collective purpose or []{#page_68
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="68"}identity, as well as our cultural reluctance to venture into
many of the most meaningful and significant moral debates of our time.
It is this fundamental abdication of responsibility for articulating a
coherent and rich vision of the world, and of shared purpose---the
systematic dismantling of the West---that has left us unable to confront
issues with moral clarity or true conviction.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText184}And the consequences of this inability
or unwillingness to enter into such debates, "where liberals fear to
tread," as Sandel famously put it, are now being made clear.
"[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText185}Where political discourse lacks moral
resonance, the yearning for a public life of larger meanings finds
undesirable expressions," he wrote in *Liberalism and the Limits of
Justice*. As a result, our broader cultural discourse shrinks down into
something small and petty, becoming "increasingly preoccupied with the
scandalous, the sensational, and the confessional," Sandel added. His
broader critique was that a certain narrowness of modern liberalism "is
too spare to contain the moral energies of a vital democratic life," and
"thus creates a moral void that opens the way for the intolerant" and
"the trivial." That void, haunting and fearsome, is now being revealed.
:::

::: {#d1-d2s9d3s2_footnotes .footnotes .footnotes epub:type="footnotes"}
[Skip Notes](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c006_r1.xhtml)

::: {#_footnote_d1-00015e95 .footnote .footnote epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"}
[[\*1](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c005_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e95 "footnote reference"){.footnote
role="doc-backlink"}
]{.footnoteNum}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText168}Appeals to virtue and
character, having been excluded for the most part from the civic and
political realms, have migrated, or rather, been co-opted and
appropriated, by the corporate. In 2013, Ram Trucks produced a
television commercial featuring a speech titled "So God Made a Farmer"
from 1978 by Paul Harvey, a radio broadcaster born in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
The speech hailed the American farmer, who, among other things, was
"willing to sit up all night with a newborn colt, and watch it die, and
dry his eyes, and say maybe next year." It was poignant and
powerful---yet all in service of selling a pickup truck. We have, quite
unwittingly, ceded direction over our interior lives, the development of
our moral selves, to the market.
:::

::: {#_footnote_d1-00015e9a .footnote .footnote epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"}
[[\*2](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c005_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e9a "footnote reference"){.footnote
role="doc-backlink"} ]{.footnoteNum}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText181}One
Soviet directive from the 1920s listed ninety-six categories of
information that were prohibited, including facts and statistics
regarding "sanitary conditions in places of incarceration," "clashes
between the authorities and peasants during the implementation of tax
and fiscal measures," as well as "cases of mental derangement caused by
unemployment and hunger."
:::
:::
