::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_115 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="115"}Chapter Ten {#chapter-ten .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [The Eck Swarm]{.char-ccust50} {#the-eck-swarm .para-ct}

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText282}

O[[n June 26, 1951, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}at around 1:30
p.m., a cluster of honeybees began to form in a park in Munich, Germany.
This small swarm of bees would eventually help reshape our understanding
of the animal mind and its capacity for undirected cooperation. Martin
Lindauer, a researcher at the University of Munich's Zoological
Institute, was on hand that summer afternoon to document the swarm as
part of a study on the behavior of the hive and the ability of bees to
coordinate among hundreds and even thousands and tens of thousands of
individuals. He was captivated by the behavior of the species *Apis
mellifera* and was determined to shed light on the delegation of
responsibility among individuals within a single bee colony,
particularly when they began searching for, and deciding between, new
potential nesting sites.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText283}Lindauer was born in 1918 in southern
Bavaria. His father, who kept beehives as well, was a farmer, and the
family had fifteen children. As Hitler rose to power and war engulfed
the continent, Lindauer ended up serving in the German army for three
years. His interests, however, lay elsewhere, and after suffering an
injury on the Russian front in 1942, he was discharged from the
military. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText284}Thomas D. Seeley, a biology
professor at Cornell University who has written extensively on
Lindauer's work, has noted that Lindauer once described the scientific
community to which he would return after his time in the army
[]{#page_116 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="116"}as "a new world of humanity." The exploration of the natural
world was a reprieve for Lindauer, who retreated into science after the
war.

He was part of a generation of zoologists whose work preceded the rise
and eventual dominance of genetic-based research in the field. For a
time during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the best access that
biologists such as Lindauer had into the mind of the animal was through
its outward behavior; a more complete understanding of the power and
inner workings of the gene, as a means of accessing the nature of a
species, was still out of reach. These earlier generations of scientists
of the natural world, including the French psychologist Alfred Binet,
were observers in the field, and keen ones. The mysteries underlying the
behavior of the animals and humans that they were studying, invisible to
most, were there for the taking, at least to anyone who was capable of
looking closely and for a sufficiently long time.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText285}When animals search for a new home,
whether geese, leaf-cutter ants, horses, or sparrows, they often venture
out as single individuals, and sometimes in pairs, in search of suitable
accommodation. The practice of the European honeybee, however, departs
significantly from the norm. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText286}Whereas
most animals explore their environments independently, in the case of
honeybees "a large community of 20 to 30 thousand individuals *together*
move into a new nest-site," Lindauer wrote---a process that requires
immense coordination but without a central queen bee or other
specialized leaders directing the work of the group. The process by
which tens of thousands of individual organisms manage to organize
themselves, canvass potential nesting sites, ultimately select one of a
number of options over the rest, and then together move to their new
home was an absolute puzzle to Lindauer and his contemporaries.

On this particular summer afternoon in 1951, the collection of bees that
Lindauer had been watching was small at first. They had begun
congregating not far from an imposing stone statue of Neptune, holding a
trident and rising from the waters of a nearby fountain.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText287}The University of Munich's Zoological
Institute, which had granted []{#page_117 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="117"}permission to
Lindauer to study the bee colonies that the institute maintained, was
located in a park that had served as the site of a botanical garden
constructed in the early nineteenth century, and there were plenty of
secluded and attractive potential nesting sites nearby among the trees
and foliage. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText288}At around three that
afternoon, clouds began forming over the park, at which point Lindauer
noted that the bees retreated to a nearby bush, where they stayed and
spent the night. The following day, after the cloud cover broke and the
sun returned, the bees resumed their work of searching for a place to
build a hive.

Such searches were involved affairs. They included dozens and sometimes
hundreds of scouting bees canvassing potential options nearby.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText289}The bees return to the group and perform
what has come to be known as what Karl von Frisch, an Austrian-born
zoologist and colleague of Lindauer's who would later win a Nobel Prize
for his work on the subject, described as a dance language, or
*Tanzsprache*---a method of communication by the bees that involved
rocking their bodies back and forth in front of onlookers that would
gather to watch. Frisch and Lindauer had discovered that the distance of
this dance, that is, whether the scouting bee walked for a centimeter or
two, for example, was proportional to the distance of the potential
nesting site from which they had returned, and therefore indicated how
far of a flight it would be to get there. In addition, evidence had
begun to accumulate suggesting that the angle of the walk, relative to
the position of the sun, indicated the direction of the new nest site.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText290}Over the course of the afternoon,
scouting bees had returned to the main swarm to report eight potential
nesting sites in the area, including a crack at the molding on top of a
nearby window, a woodpecker hole, and a small hollow in a tree.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText291}It had become evident to Frisch and
Lindauer that individual scouting bees would perform dances in favor of
different sites and that the number of scouts that danced in favor of
various locations would allow the hive to essentially vote as to the
best option.

The bees, for Lindauer, represented something different in nature.
[]{#page_118 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="118"}The swarm that he was observing was not merely a collection
of discrete individual animals. The precision and extent of their
coordination, and lack of any apparent means of centralized management,
made clear that the bees formed a discrete system, a coherent whole,
[]{#page_119 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="119"}whose capacity for assessing and adapting to its
surroundings would prompt a reassessment of what constitutes an organism
in the decades to come. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText292}Lindauer
narrated the scene with a blend of delicacy and reverence, noting that
while two of the eight sites "had already received somewhat more
popularity," "naturally there was not yet any talk of an agreement."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText293}On the following day, he noted that the
scout bees had seemingly become less enthused about the north site,
presumably because something had happened overnight, perhaps a deluge of
rainwater that had made the nest unusable.

![Figure 9 ¶ Locations of Potential Nesting Sites as Indicated by
Honeybee Dances in the Eck
Swarm](../images/008a_Karp_9780593798690_all_art_r1.jpg){#page_118_img1
.fill}

The swarm adjusted accordingly, and quickly.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText294}A new batch of potential sites were
located by the scouts, some of which, Lindauer wrote, "were only
announced by a single dance and received no attention from the
population at large," while "others were lavished with more attention."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText295}Over the next several hours, the bees
continued to dance in favor of their preferred nesting sites---a blur of
intensity and movement through which a collection of thousands of
individuals were negotiating and ultimately voting on their top
contender for a new home. A particular spot three hundred meters away
eventually "emerged as the favorite," Lindauer reported. The remaining
holdouts had relented and given in. The following morning, at 9:40 a.m.,
Lindauer observed that the entire swarm of bees, having negotiated over
the options and settled on a preferred location, "took off and moved
into its new home."

The observations of the Eck Swarm, as it would come to be known,
represented a critical moment in our understanding of the behavior of
honeybees and their capacity for
communication.[\[\*\]](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c010_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015ec0 "footnote"){#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015ec0
.char-fnref .footnote_ref .noteref epub:type="noteref"
role="doc-noteref"} But Lindauer's work also suggested something more
fundamental about the ways in which groups, and indeed extraordinarily
large groups of individual animals, have the potential to organize
themselves around []{#page_120 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="120"}a particular problem and respond to
changing conditions. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText297}As one group of
researchers has noted, writing on the implications of the collective
decision making of honeybees and other animals for human organizations,
including nurses and physicians in the health-care field, the social
structure of bees demonstrates "coordinated behaviour that emerges
without central control."

The startup, in its ideal form, should become a honeybee swarm. Such
coordination and movement, without an overbearing and unnecessarily
centralized mechanism of control, is in many ways the single most
essential feature of successful startup and engineering cultures in the
American context. The bees that Lindauer and others since have studied
do not incorporate caste-based social hierarchies in order to address
the enormous collective action challenges that they face, but rather
distribute autonomy to as great a degree as possible to the
fringes---the scouts---of their organization. The individuals at the
periphery of a group, who often have the latest and most valuable
information regarding the suitability of potential nesting sites, and
can take into account shifting conditions, are the ones who cast their
ballots by dancing for the group. The swarm *organizes itself* around
the problem at hand.

Other species have demonstrated similar patterns of behavior. Giorgio
Parisi, an Italian physicist, has studied starlings for years in the
hope of understanding the means by which they pass information to one
another so quickly and are thus capable of flying in the whirls of
flocks that seem to move as a single unit. In December 2005, he and his
team set up three cameras on the top of the Palazzo Massimo, a building
in central Rome that houses the National Roman Museum.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText298}Each of the cameras was set to
photograph the flocks of starlings that routinely hovered and whirled
above the square, taking a total of ten images every second.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText299}He found that the flocks of birds, which
to casual observers are often thought to be spheres or oddly shaped
orbs, are actually more like disks. With his ten images every second,
and a three-dimensional reconstruction of the birds moving []{#page_121
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="121"}through space, Parisi's team was able to map the precise
position of each bird in a given flock.

As is the case with the honeybees, the movements of the group of
starlings are most often initiated by birds at the edges of the flock,
those with a best vantage of potential predators and the world
outside---not by preordained leaders or chiefs. Guidance as to which
direction the group will be moving is then passed from bird to bird,
from the edges of the flock to its core, within a fraction of a second,
and shared seamlessly across the entire group of hundreds of
individuals. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText300}As Parisi wrote, messages
regarding which way to fly among birds in the flock are shared among
them "as if by incredibly rapid word of mouth."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

At most human organizations, from government bureaucracies to large
corporations, an enormous amount of the energy and talent of individuals
is directed at jockeying for position, claiming credit for success, and
often desperately avoiding blame for failure. The vital and scarce
creative output of those involved in an endeavor is far too often
misdirected to crafting self-serving hierarchies and patrolling who
reports to whom. Among the bees, however, there is no mediation of the
information captured by the scouts once they return to the hive. And the
starlings do not have to seek permission from higher-ups before they
signal to their neighbors that the flock is turning. There are no weekly
reports to middle management, no presentations to more senior leaders.
No meetings or conference calls to prepare for other meetings. The bee
swarms and flocks of starlings do not consist of layers upon layers of
vice presidents and deputy vice presidents, directing the work of
subgroups of individuals and managing the perceptions of their
superiors. There is only the flock or the swarm. And it is within those
whirls of motion that a certain type of improvisation, and looseness, is
allowed to take form.
:::

::: {#d1-d2s10d3s2_footnotes .footnotes .footnotes epub:type="footnotes"}
[Skip Notes](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c011_r1.xhtml)

::: {#_footnote_d1-00015ec0 .footnote .footnote epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"}
[[\*](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c010_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015ec0 "footnote reference"){.footnote
role="doc-backlink"} ]{.footnoteNum}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText296}The
names of the swarms under observation in many cases came from their
locations in Munich (e.g., the "fence," "elm," and "hedge" swarms). The
German word *Eck* means "corner" in English.
:::
:::
