::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_29 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="29"}Chapter Three {#chapter-three .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [The Winner's Fallacy]{.char-ccust50} {#the-winners-fallacy .para-ct}

A[[ passage from the Talmud recounts ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}an
exchange with a teacher named Rabha who lived in the fourth century in a
small town in Babylon, located in present-day Iraq not far south from
Baghdad. He considers whether it is permissible to kill a burglar who
breaks into one's home. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText69}Rabha makes clear
that "if one comes to kill you, hasten to kill him first."

Several generations in the United States have now never known a war
between the world's great powers. Indeed, since the end of World War II,
billions and billions of people have never experienced the horror of a
significant military conflict. The preoccupations of late capitalism
have had the luxury of drifting to other matters. But a reluctance to
grapple with the often grim reality of an ongoing geopolitical struggle
for power poses its own danger. Our adversaries will not pause to
indulge in theatrical debates about the merits of developing
technologies with critical military and national security applications.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText70}They will proceed.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology, a division of the
U.S. Department of Commerce based in Gaithersburg, Maryland, conducts
regular tests of dozens of facial recognition algorithms from companies
around the world. The most effective systems are subjected to what are
known as twin studies, in which the algorithms are presented with
photographs of identical twins in order to []{#page_30 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="30"}determine whether
the programs can reliably distinguish between the subtle variations in
the faces of the siblings, which can often escape the notice of humans.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText71}As of 2024, three of the top six facial
recognition companies in the world were based in China, including
CloudWalk Technology in Guangzhou, whose shares are traded on the
Shanghai Stock Exchange. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText72}In December
2021, the U.S. Treasury Department publicly accused CloudWalk of
providing its software to the Chinese government to "track and surveil
members of ethnic minority groups, including Tibetans and Uyghurs."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText73}Two of the other companies with the most
effective facial recognition systems in the world were built by entities
located in the United Arab Emirates.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText74}In 2022, a research group at Zhejiang
University, in Hangzhou, China, successfully developed a swarm of small,
flying drones that were capable of coordinating among one another as
they tracked an object moving through a dense bamboo forest. The group
of drones, the team wrote in a study published in the journal *Science
Robotics*, was "similar to birds capable of flying freely through the
forest." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText75}A graduate student at École
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, in Switzerland, who was not involved
in the work that produced the paper, said in an interview that the work
of the group in Hangzhou represented the first ever instance of "a swarm
of drones successfully flying outside an unstructured environment, in
the wild." The research team did not mention any potential military
applications of their work. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText76}Yet the
following year, in October 2023, a division of the U.S. Air Force
concluded that the Chinese military had been actively pursuing research
into the development of drone swarms "for dealing with dynamic scenarios
in large-scale combat" and that many of the country's most recent patent
filings concerned technology with implications for conflicts in "urban
environments."

Our geopolitical adversaries are ruled by individuals who are often
closer to founders, in the sense Silicon Valley uses the term,
[]{#page_31 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="31"}than traditional politicians. Their fates and personal
fortunes are so deeply intertwined with those of the nations whose
authoritarian regimes they oversee that they behave as owners, in that
they have a direct stake in the future of their countries. And as a
result, they can be far more alert and sensitive to the needs and
demands of their public, even if they ruthlessly and viciously ignore
them. In business and in politics, we are all, always, negotiating
against the threat of revolt.

The leading nations of the world are now engaged in a new kind of arms
race. Our hesitation, perceived or otherwise, to move forward with
military applications of artificial intelligence will be punished. The
ability to develop the tools required to deploy force against an
opponent, combined with a credible threat to use such force, is often
the foundation of any effective negotiation with an adversary. The
underlying cause of our cultural hesitation to openly pursue technical
superiority may be our collective sense that we have already won. But
the certainty with which many believed that history had come to an end,
and that Western liberal democracy had emerged in permanent victory
after the struggles of the twentieth century, is as dangerous as it is
pervasive.

In 1989, Francis Fukuyama published an essay, later expanded into his
book *The End of History*, that articulated a worldview that would shape
elite thinking about great power competition for decades.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText77}He declared months before the fall of the
Berlin Wall that we had reached "the end-point of mankind's ideological
evolution" and that liberal democracy represented "the final form of
human government." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText78}Fukuyama's claim was a
tantalizing suggestion that "the monotony of the meaningless rise and
fall of great powers," in the words of Allan Bloom, was but an illusion
and that history indeed had an underlying direction, however meandering,
of movement. We must not, however, grow complacent. The ability of free
and democratic societies to prevail requires something more than moral
appeal. It []{#page_32 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="32"}requires hard power, and hard power in
this century will be built on
software.[\[\*\]](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c003_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015e81 "footnote"){#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e81
.char-fnref .footnote_ref .noteref epub:type="noteref"
role="doc-noteref"}

Thomas Schelling, who taught economics at Yale and later Harvard,
understood the relationship between technical advances in the
development of weaponry and the ability of such weaponry to shape
political outcomes. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText80}To be coercive,
violence has to be anticipated," he wrote in the 1960s as the United
States grappled with its military escalation in Vietnam. "The power to
hurt is bargaining power. To exploit it is diplomacy---vicious
diplomacy, but diplomacy." The virtue of Schelling's version of realism
was its unsentimental disentanglement of the moral from the strategic.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText81}As he made clear, "War is always a
bargaining process."

Before one engages with the justice or injustice of a policy, it is
necessary to understand one's leverage or lack thereof in a negotiation,
armed or otherwise. The contemporary approach to international affairs
too often assumes, either explicitly or implicitly, that the correctness
of one's views from a moral or ethical perspective precludes the need to
engage with the more distasteful and fundamental question of relative
power with respect to a geopolitical opponent, and specifically which
party has a superior ability to inflict harm on the other. The
wishfulness of the current moment and many of its political leaders may
in the end be their undoing.

While other countries press forward, many Silicon Valley engineers
remain opposed to working on software projects that may have offensive
military applications, including machine learning systems that make
possible the more systematic targeting and elimination of enemies on the
battlefield. These engineers will, without hesitation, dedicate their
working lives to building algorithms that optimize the placement of ads
on social media platforms. But they will not []{#page_33 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="33"}build software for
the U.S. Marines. In 2019, for example, Microsoft faced internal
opposition to accepting a defense contract with the U.S. Army.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText82}The company had been selected to provide
virtual headsets to soldiers for use in planning missions and for
training. A group of employees at Microsoft, however, objected, writing
an open letter to Satya Nadella, the company's chief executive officer,
and Brad Smith, its president. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText83}We did
not sign up to develop weapons," they argued.

A year earlier, in April 2018, an employee protest at Google preceded
the company's decision not to renew a contract for work with the U.S.
Department of Defense on an effort known as Project Maven, a critical
system designed to assist with the analysis of satellite and other
reconnaissance imagery for planning and executing special forces
operations around the world. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText84}Building
this technology to assist the U.S. government in military
surveillance---and potentially lethal outcomes---is not acceptable,"
Google employees wrote in a letter, which received more than three
thousand signatures, to Sundar Pichai, the company's chief executive
officer. At the time, Google issued a statement attempting to defend its
involvement in the project on the grounds that the company's work was
merely "for non-offensive purposes." It was a subtle and lawyerly
distinction to attempt, particularly from the perspective of American
soldiers and intelligence analysts on the front lines who needed better
software systems to do their jobs and stay alive. Within less than two
months, however, Google announced that it would pause its work on the
government project. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText85}Diane Greene, who ran
Google's cloud business, told employees that the company had decided
against pursuing further work on the effort with the U.S. military
"because the backlash has been terrible," according to a report at the
time. The employees had spoken. And the company's leadership had
listened. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText86}An article in *Jacobin* days
later declared "victory against US militarism," noting that employees at
Google had successfully risen up against what they believed was a
misdirection of their talents.

[]{#page_34 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="34"}We have seen firsthand the reluctance of young engineers to
build the digital equivalent of weapons systems. For some of them, the
order of society and the relative safety and comfort in which they live
are the inevitable consequence of the justice of the American project,
not the result of a concerted and intricate effort to defend a nation
and its interests. Such safety and comfort were not fought for or won.
For many, the security that we enjoy is a background fact or feature of
existence so foundational that it merits no explanation. These engineers
inhabit a world without trade-offs, ideological or economic. Their
views, however, and those of a generation of others like them in Silicon
Valley have meaningfully drifted from the center of gravity of American
public opinion. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText87}It is striking that while
public trust in institutions has varied over the decades, and fallen
precipitously for some---including for newspapers, public schools, and
Congress---Americans consistently report that the U.S. military remains
among the most trusted institutions in the country. The instincts of the
public should not so easily be cast aside.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText88}When William F. Buckley Jr. told an
interviewer at *Esquire* in 1961 that he "would rather be governed by
the first 2,000 people in the telephone directory" than by "the Harvard
University faculty," there was a playfulness and a degree of irony in
his jab at the establishment. But there was wisdom and something
adjacent to humility in his reminder as well.

The wunderkinder of Silicon Valley---their fortunes, business empires,
and, more fundamentally, entire sense of self---exist because of the
nation that in many cases made their rise possible. They charge
themselves with constructing vast technical empires but decline to offer
support to the state whose protections---not to mention educational
institutions and capital markets---have provided the necessary
conditions for their ascent. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText89}They would
do well to understand that debt, even if it remains unpaid.

Our experiment in the West with self-government is fragile. We are not
advocating for a thin and shallow patriotism---a substitute []{#page_35
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="35"}for
thought and genuine reflection about the merits of our national project
as well as its flaws. The United States is far from perfect. But it is
easy to forget how much more opportunity exists in this country for
those who are not hereditary elites than in any other nation on the
planet. It is true that we should hold ourselves and our experiment to a
higher standard than that of other nations, but it is also worth
remembering how high a standard this country has already set. A more
intimate collaboration between the state and the technology sector, and
a closer alignment of vision between the two, will be required if the
United States and its allies are to maintain an advantage that will
constrain our adversaries over the long term. The preconditions for a
durable peace often come only from a credible threat of war.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

In the summer of 1939, from a cottage on the North Fork of Long Island,
Albert Einstein sent a letter---which he had worked on with Leo Szilard
and others---to President Franklin Roosevelt, urging him to explore
building a nuclear weapon, and quickly. Einstein and Roosevelt had known
each other since Einstein's arrival in the United States from Germany in
the early 1930s. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText90}There was a degree of
closeness in their relationship. Roosevelt, who first attended school as
a child in Bad Nauheim, north of Frankfurt, and was nearly fluent in
German, had read Hitler's *Mein Kampf*.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText91}Einstein and his wife had previously
spent the night in the White House at the president's invitation.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText92}The rapid technical advances in the
development of a potential atomic weapon, Einstein and Szilard wrote in
their letter, "seem to call for watchfulness and, if necessary, quick
action on the part of the administration," as well as a sustained
partnership founded on "permanent contact maintained between the
administration" and physicists. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText93}That
permanent contact resulted in one of the most significant scientific
breakthroughs of the twentieth century []{#page_36 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="36"}and gave the
United States and its allies a decisive advantage in a struggle whose
outcome reshaped the world. It was the raw power and strategic potential
of the bomb that prompted the call to action then. It is the far less
visible but equally significant capabilities of these newest artificial
intelligence technologies that should prompt swift action now.
:::

::: {#d1-d2s8d3s4_footnotes .footnotes .footnotes epub:type="footnotes"}
[Skip Notes](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c004_r1.xhtml)

::: {#_footnote_d1-00015e81 .footnote .footnote epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"}
[[\*](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c003_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e81 "footnote reference"){.footnote
role="doc-backlink"} ]{.footnoteNum}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText79}Our
point is that such moral appeal is necessary but not sufficient to wield
power in the world. As Joseph S. Nye Jr. has observed, to "deny the
importance of soft power" is to fail to "understand the power of
seduction."
:::
:::
