::: {.page_top_padding .copyright-page epub:type="copyright-page"}
[]{#page_iv .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="iv"}[Crown Currency]{.fv-smallcaps .char-scc}

An imprint of the Crown Publishing Group

A division of Penguin Random House LLC

[crownpublishing.com](http://crownpublishing.com){.char-url}

Copyright © 2025 by Alexander C. Karp and Nicholas W. Zamiska

Penguin Random House values and supports copyright. Copyright fuels
creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates
a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this
book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning,
or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are
supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to continue to
publish books for every reader. Please note that no part of this book
may be used or reproduced in any manner for the purpose of training
artificial intelligence technologies or systems.

[Crown]{.fv-smallcaps .char-scc} is a registered trademark and [Crown
Currency]{.fv-smallcaps .char-scc} and colophon are trademarks of
Penguin Random House LLC.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

Names: Karp, Alexander C., author. \| Zamiska, Nicholas W., author.

Title: The technological republic: hard power, soft belief, and the
future of the West / Alexander C. Karp and Nicholas W. Zamiska.

Description: First edition. \| New York: Crown Currency, \[2025\] \|
Includes bibliographical references and index. \| Summary: "A sweeping
indictment of Silicon Valley, showing how the West has slid into a
culture of complacency, even as we enter a new era of mounting global
threats"---Provided by publisher.

Identifiers: LCCN 2024041592 (print) \| LCCN 2024041593 (ebook) \|
ISBN 9780593798690 (hardcover) \| ISBN 9798217086269 (paperback) \|
ISBN 9780593798706 (ebook)

Subjects: LCSH: Technology and state---United States. \|
Technology---Social aspects---United States. \| Western
countries---Social conditions---Forecasting. \| Regression
(Civilization) \| World politics---21st century. \| Power (Social
sciences)

Classification: LCC T21 .K54 2025 (print) \| LCC T21 (ebook) \| DDC
352.7/450973---dc23/eng/20241209

LC record available at
[https://lccn.loc.gov/​2024041592](https://lccn.loc.gov/2024041592){.char-url}

LC ebook record available at
[https://lccn.loc.gov/​2024041593](https://lccn.loc.gov/2024041593){.char-url}

Hardcover ISBN 9780593798690

International edition ISBN 9798217086269

Ebook ISBN 9780593798706

Editor: Paul Whitlatch \| Production editor: Liana Faughnan \| Text
designer: Aubrey Khan \| Print production manager: Dustin Amick \|
Proofreader: Kevin Clift \| Indexer: Jay Kreider \| Publicist: Tammy
Blake \| Marketer: Mason Eng

Cover design: Chris Allen

ep_prh_7.1a_150189547_c0_r0
:::
