::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_179 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="179"}Chapter Sixteen {#chapter-sixteen .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [Piety and Its Price]{.char-ccust50} {#piety-and-its-price .para-ct}

I[[n February 2023, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}the Economic Club
of Washington, D.C., held a talk with David Rubenstein, the famed
private equity investor, and Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal
Reserve. The discussion covered familiar and expected terrain, including
the debate about inflation and the appropriate level of interest rates,
before taking an unexpected turn. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText458}At one
point, Rubenstein, co-founder of the Carlyle Group with an estimated net
worth of nearly \$4 billion, asked Powell a seemingly straightforward
question: "What is the salary of the chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board?" Powell smiled, barely betraying even the slightest discomfort,
and responded that his annual salary was roughly \$190,000. Rubenstein
then ventured further, asking Powell, "You think that's a fair salary
for the job?" Powell replied, earnestly and plausibly, "I do." The
audience laughed nervously, perhaps out of solidarity with Powell, who
was handling a potentially volatile line of questioning with
extraordinary grace.

It was a surreal moment. One billionaire asking a multimillionaire
whether a salary of less than what a first-year associate would make at
an investment bank was appropriate for the chairman of the Federal
Reserve, the most powerful and influential central bank on the planet.
The decisions that Powell himself makes are easily some of the most
consequential in the world. During the course of his tenure, the fates
of hundreds of millions of workers in the United States []{#page_180
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="180"}and
abroad have hinged on his instincts about the path of inflation, the
timing of interest rate increases and potential decreases, and his views
about the strength of the American and global economies. Trillions of
dollars in stock markets from New York to London, and Sydney to
Shanghai, would trade hands as the direct result of his thinking and
attempt to steer the U.S. economy, and by extension the world's, through
a historically vulnerable period of inflation and potentially softening
growth. And yet Congress has decided to pay him around \$190,000 per
year. In the private sector, such a salary would be considered absurd,
given the scale and impact of the role and the resources available to
his employer.

At that salary, Powell is essentially volunteering his time to the
country. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText459}His compensation as an employee
of the federal government is negligible with respect to his net worth,
which has been reported to be in excess of \$20 million, and he has said
publicly that he essentially lives off his significant savings. But why
are we, as a country, the world's wealthiest, asking for a volunteer to
run the Federal Reserve? What incentives does that create, and how
dramatically does that winnow the pool of potential candidates who might
be interested in the job?

We complain about the influence of money in politics, only to remain
silent as wealthy individuals increasingly dominate political races.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText460}The unintended consequence of our
approach to public sector compensation is that an increasingly
disproportionate number of the world's wealthiest are running for and
winning public office, both in the United States and around the world.
Of two thousand individuals identified as billionaires by *Forbes*, for
example, a group of researchers at Northwestern University concluded in
a 2023 study that approximately 11 percent of them had either held or
run for political office. The incentives that our current approach
creates are perverse. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText461}Members of the
U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate earn just \$174,000
per year on average, even as their decisions have the potential to
affect the lives of millions of soldiers, teachers, []{#page_181
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="181"}workers, and students across the country. Any business that
compensated its employees in the way that the federal government
compensates public servants would struggle to survive.

We tell ourselves that politicians should seek office for more noble
reasons, those other than renumeration, only to pay them a fraction of
what some of them could earn in the private sector. But we decline to
confront the consequence of this approach, which is that we essentially
incentivize candidates for public service to become wealthy before
entering office, or to monetize their position after their departure.
The extent of self-promotion and theater in the U.S. Congress is
astounding, with representatives in the lower chamber vying for clicks
and social media influence, and by extension incomes, after they leave
office. The quality of candidates is a feature, in part, of what we are
willing to pay them.

Others have advocated for increasing the pay of our elected and
unelected representatives. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText462}As Matthew
Yglesias, who co-founded *Vox* in 2014, has written, "If we want a
better, more functional Congress, the American people should do what any
other employer would do: make the job more desirable so that a larger
pool of people run for office." In recent decades, numerous proposals
have been made to reform public sector compensation in the United
States, and most have gone nowhere. Since the founding of the republic,
we have sought to hold on to the hope that well-meaning and talented
people would run for office to serve their country for reasons other
than their personal enrichment. In 1787, at a debate regarding
congressional salaries, James Madison, who would become the fourth
president of the United States, was skeptical of allowing members of
Congress to have control over their own compensation.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText463}He argued that it would "be indecent to
put their hands into the public purse for the sake of their own
pockets." Yet our reluctance to blend personal incentives and public
purpose, to adapt the practices of the business sector when setting
salaries and compensation structures for government officials, will only
hold us back. More experimentation, not []{#page_182 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="182"}less, is needed.
And a far more radical approach to rewarding those who create the value
from which we all benefit will be required.

In November 1994, Lee Kuan Yew, who served as the first prime minister
of Singapore, was caught in a debate with other members of parliament
regarding his proposed increases to government salaries. Lee had
instituted a system under which the compensation of the island nation's
public officials was set based on comparable salaries in private sector
professions, including banking and law.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText464}By 2007, for example, the average annual
salary of the country's ministers would rise to \$1.26 million per year.
Lee's critics argued that increasing salaries would attract the wrong
type of candidate, those motivated to pursue government work for
personal gain as opposed to public service.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText465}At a parliamentary debate on the matter,
Lee responded that politicians "are real men and women, just like you
and me, with real families who have real aspirations in life." He
continued: "So when we talk of all these high-falutin, noble, lofty
causes, remember at the end of the day, very few people become priests."

It is a skepticism of incentives in the domains that are most important
to our collective good that may be part of what is holding us back. Why
should we, the public, cede the use of incentives to the finance and
banking industries, as well as the technology sector. The ascetic streak
in American culture is admirable; deprivation, a skepticism of the
material, reminds us that a bare and hollow commitment to consumption
alone will inevitably lead us astray. But those instincts, the unstated
desire that public servants be our priests, are having the unintended
and undesirable consequence of depriving vast sectors of the public
economies---in government, education, and medicine---of the benefits
that the right incentives can create. Our reluctance to experiment with
novel compensation models in the context of public pursuits is also
deeply regressive, walling off entire professions---across the arts,
medicine, government, publishing, and []{#page_183 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="183"}academia---as
essentially the domain of an educated and often hereditary elite who can
afford to volunteer its time and labor to the republic. A more
uncharitable telling of the story would be that such elites do not want
the competition to the high-status professions over which they currently
enjoy near-exclusive access. We must pay our doctors and public servants
and teachers more. These are noble callings. But those who pursue them
should not be asked to accept their nobility as payment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

On the evening of May 31, 1953, in a remote area of eastern Idaho, a
group of engineers from the U.S. Navy gathered to test the operation of
a small nuclear reactor, one that would go on to change the balance of
power over the world's oceans for the next half century. The distinction
of this particular reactor was that it could fit on board a submarine,
and the plan, radical at the time, was to have it power the ship.
Experiments to reliably control and harness the power of nuclear chain
reactions were still in their infancy, and the risks of an
accident---including the leakage of radiation or an uncontrolled
explosion---were significant. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText466}Everyone
present "knew the danger," Edwin E. Kintner, the naval officer
supervising the test, recalled years later. The hope was that the
reactor could power a steam turbine; the fear was that it would turn
into a nuclear bomb.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText467}On that evening in the Idaho desert,
Thomas E. Murray, the commissioner of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission,
pressed his hand to engage the reactor's throttle, and steam began
spinning the heavy turbine. The nuclear engine, the first of its kind,
ran for nearly two hours. The following month, the same reactor would be
tested for five days straight. A race had begun, pitting the United
States against the Soviet Union, to develop the next generation of
submarines, ones that could maneuver through the oceans
undetected---with a []{#page_184 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="184"}whisper rather than the drone of a
diesel engine---and without the need to refuel.

The reactor worked, nearly flawlessly.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText468}In May 1955, the world's first
nuclear-powered submarine, named the USS *Nautilus* after the craft in
Jules Verne's *Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea*, set off from New
London, Connecticut, for San Juan, Puerto Rico, remaining submerged for
nearly four days straight over the thirteen-hundred-mile journey.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText469}A U.S. Navy report would later note that
the vessel was "almost immune to air attack" or detection, and could,
with its speed, even evade a conventional torpedo. America was now
positioned to retain an advantage over the oceans that would endure for
decades, one which an adversary has yet to seriously challenge.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText470}The plan to construct a sufficiently
small nuclear reactor capable of powering a submarine had been hatched
and driven by Hyman G. Rickover, a revered yet complicated character who
was serving as rear admiral of the U.S. Navy at the time. He was born in
1900 in a small town not far north of Warsaw.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText471}His father, who was a tailor, left
Europe and immigrated with his family to New York in 1906, when Rickover
was six years old. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText472}The speed with which
the U.S. Navy was able to build a functional submersible vessel powered
by a nuclear reactor was the direct result of Rickover's "daring
aggressiveness," according to Kintner---a breakthrough that had the
potential to transform a submarine into something more than a "surface
ship which could submerge only for short periods," but rather into an
underwater vessel that would be able to remain hidden in the depths for
months.

Rickover could be condescending and abusive.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText473}On several occasions, he reportedly made
junior officers with whom he disagreed stand in a closet for hours to
contemplate their perceived failings. Rickover understood his own
limitations to a great degree; he said he had "the charisma of a
chipmunk" in an interview with Diane Sawyer on *60 Minutes* in 1984. In
his mind, the rules were for other []{#page_185 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="185"}people.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText474}When a deputy arrived in his office with
a book of U.S. Navy regulations, Rickover recalled telling the officer
to get out and burn the book. "My job was not to work within the system.
My job was to get things done," he said. Jimmy Carter, who had served
under Rickover as a junior officer in the navy in the late 1940s,
decades before running for and winning the presidency, acknowledged that
Rickover could be difficult, and even that there had been "a few times,
when I hated him." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText475}But his reverence for
the man was steadfast. Carter would add that aside from his own father
"no other person has had such a profound impact on my life."

In the early 1980s, a few years after his retirement, it emerged that
Rickover had been accepting a range of gifts and favors for nearly two
decades from General Dynamics Corporation, one of the country's leading
shipbuilders. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText476}A report in 1985 by a U.S.
Navy review board concluded that he had received, and often requested, a
total of \$67,628 worth of gifts from the company over a sixteen-year
period, or roughly \$4,200 per year from 1961 to 1977. The roster of
gifts was eclectic and odd. It included a pair of earrings and a jade
pendant valued at \$1,125, but also twelve fruit knives with handles
made of water buffalo horn, the dry cleaning on frequent occasions of
Rickover's suits, a used *Encyclopaedia Britannica* set, eleven hot
plates and metal pots for cooking custards, twelve shower curtains, teak
trays made from the wood deck of the *Nautilus*, 240 coffee mugs over
the years, and eighty-eight paperweights from Tiffany & Co. The roster
of items represented a sort of collection of corporate detritus, a
smattering of essentially holiday gifts and gestures that any one of
which in isolation could possibly have been argued to be minor and de
minimis but in aggregate suggested to some an overly comfortable
relationship with a defense contractor.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText477}Rickover admitted to accepting the gifts
and said that many were passed on to others in Congress who supported
his efforts. The acceptance of such gifts, ranging from trinkets and
mementos to jewelry, was relatively []{#page_186 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="186"}commonplace at
the time---a relic of an era when shipbuilders and senior defense
officials often saw themselves as partners collaborating against their
antagonists and adversaries within the military and in Congress.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText478}Rickover would later argue that he could
have "made a fortune in the private sector," retiring in 1952, but
instead stayed on with the navy for three more decades.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText479}The U.S. Navy concluded that the
misconduct merited a warning letter, rather than a formal disciplinary
proceeding. But Rickover's enemies, of which there were many, saw the
revelations as an opportunity to tarnish the reputation of someone they
believed had flown too close to the sun.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText480}John Lehman, the secretary of the U.S.
Navy at the time the "trinkets" scandal broke and a longtime opponent of
Rickover's, said in 1985 that the episode represented a "fall from
grace" for the retired admiral. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText481}An
editorial in the *New York Times* that same year argued that the gifts
reflected Rickover's "belief that he was above the rules"---a belief
that had "helped him to high accomplishments, but fostered deep flaws of
judgment." Some saw an aging admiral who should have simply retired
decades before he did.

A lonely few came to Rickover's defense.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText482}William Proxmire, then a U.S. senator
from Wisconsin, summarily brushed away the allegations against his
longtime friend, who Proxmire said "will be known as the father of the
nuclear Navy and an indomitable fighter against defense contract abuses
long after the petty figures who now run the Navy are forgotten."
Rickover was, by nearly every account, a towering figure, without whom
the United States might never have attained such a decisive advantage
over the Soviet Union, tipping the balance of power in America's favor.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText483}An obituary in *Time* magazine concluded
that while he had been "marred by an excess of arrogance," it was his
"rude genius" that "proved to be one of the Navy's greatest assets at
the dawn of the Atomic Age."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

[]{#page_187 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="187"}The Rickovers of society, and there have been many over the
decades and indeed centuries, have for the most part been cast out,
discarded as relics of an era when those in power justified, both to
themselves and to others, their own self-dealing and mercenary tactics
by their ability to achieve results. We have, as a culture, decided to
shift our focus to the enforcement of the administrative rules and
regulations that many tell themselves are our best and perhaps only
defense against a slow decline into corruption. Yet we refuse to engage
with what is lost and traded away---the preservation of some degree of
space for those whose intentions are noble enough and, more important,
whose interests are aligned with those of the group. The speed with
which we increasingly have abandoned the unpopular, the unlikable, and
the less than charismatic personalities among us should give us pause.
The risk is that we begin to privilege the seemingly unobjectionable
goals of transparency and process over what actually matters---building
submarines, developing our most elusive cures, preventing terrorist
attacks, and advancing our interests. Such a utilitarian calculus is
unattractive. But in any struggle, we must sometimes set aside aesthetic
distaste. We too often hide behind our piety as a way of avoiding more
challenging and indeed uncomfortable questions about outcomes and
results.

The world looks the other way when confronted with the princely sums
paid to those in Silicon Valley and on Wall Street, as well as the hedge
fund managers and traders who allocate capital in our market economy.
But an uproar arises when a retired navy admiral, one whose efforts
provided us with the most significant development in naval warfare of
the century, reveals his vanity and lack of judgment when dealing with a
defense contractor. Had he broken the rules? Perhaps. But there are
costs as well to such a strict and unwavering adherence to such
protocols, and limits to the comfort that a narrow procedural justice
can provide. Our desire for purity is understandable. We cling to the
hope that the most noble and pious among us []{#page_188 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="188"}will also have
the ambition to seek power. But history tells us that the opposite is
far more often the
case.[\[\*\]](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c016_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015ee7 "footnote"){#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015ee7
.char-fnref .footnote_ref .noteref epub:type="noteref"
role="doc-noteref"} The eradication of any space for forgiveness---a
jettisoning of any tolerance for the complexities and contradictions of
the human psyche---may leave us with a cast of characters at the helm we
will grow to regret.

The collective desire for a scapegoat can be so thorough and complete
that it often, throughout history, has overtaken us.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText485}In *Permanence and Change*, published in
1935, Kenneth Burke described "the scapegoat mechanism in its purest
form," as "the use of a sacrificial receptacle for the ritual
unburdening of one's sins." This process of transferring the sins of a
people to an animal, which would then be "ferociously beaten or slain,"
was a means of relieving the broader social group of guilt or feelings
of dissonance. We must grapple far more directly with this cyclical and
deeply seated desire that wells up in us for a scapegoat---a vessel for
our own failings, weaknesses, forbidden desires, and flaws. The feelings
of relief and unburdening that accompany the sacrificial slaughter of
the animal, or one of us in our midst, are often ephemeral.

Our society has grown too eager to hasten, and is often gleeful at, the
demise of its enemies. The vanquishing of an opponent is a moment to
pause, not rejoice. In the sixth century, in a small village outside
Rome, Saint Benedict found himself harassed and persecuted by a priest
named Florentius. The Roman Empire had collapsed a century before, and
Benedict had fled the former imperial capital to pursue a new monastic
life in the countryside. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText486}Florentius,
after attempting to kill Benedict, including by sending him a loaf of
poisoned bread that a crow took and cast away, sent "seven naked girls"
into the garden of his monastery in a bid to tempt the monk to sin,
according to an account of the episode written by Pope Gregory
[]{#page_189 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="189"}in the sixth century. The plan failed. Florentius was
himself eventually killed; the circumstances of his death remain
unclear. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText487}But when an apprentice rushes
to tell Benedict of his enemy's demise, Pope Gregory recounts that
Benedict took the news "very heavily, both because his enemy was dead
and because his disciple rejoiced thereat."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

Our current tendency toward the prizing of strict adherence to certain
norms and regulations is evidence of a more fundamental challenge that
our society faces. A rigidity in our approach to addressing malfeasance,
and willingness to overlook results, to persecute the unpopular, are
symptoms of dysfunction within a society whose leaders have become
untethered from the outcomes with which they are purportedly charged to
advance. Many no longer share in either the risk or the reward of their
decisions. And yet the reshaping of our most critical institutions,
along with the incentives we provide to those who lead them, will not be
possible without an even more ambitious, and significant, shift. The
reconstruction of a technological republic will, in the end, require the
resurrection and re-embrace of a sense of national and collective
identity that has, throughout history, provided the bedrock for human
progress.
:::

::: {#d1-d2s11d3s3_footnotes .footnotes .footnotes epub:type="footnotes"}
[Skip Notes](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c017_r1.xhtml)

::: {#_footnote_d1-00015ee7 .footnote .footnote epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"}
[[\*](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c016_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015ee7 "footnote reference"){.footnote
role="doc-backlink"} ]{.footnoteNum}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText484}The
hope that a governing class will emerge, as our reluctant leaders
drafted into service nearly against their will, is ancient. Plato, in
*The Republic*, claimed that "good men will not consent to govern for
cash or honours," for "they aren't ambitious."
:::
:::
