::: page_top_padding
# []{#page_a .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="a"}Advance Praise for *The Technological Republic* {#advance-praise-for-the-technological-republic .para-fst-fs-pg}

"The wizards of America's digital revolution have produced many shiny
consumer products and apps. But they have often remained aloof from
engaging in a sense of national purpose or common good. This book is a
rallying cry, as we enter the age of artificial intelligence, for a
return to the World War II era of cooperation between the technology
industry and government in order to pursue innovation that will advance
our national welfare and democratic goals. A fascinating and important
work."

[[---Walter Isaacson, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}#1 *New York
Times* bestselling author

"Alex Karp's book might be titled *A Freethinker's Manifesto*. He
decries the arrogance and small-mindedness of Silicon Valley and
explains his passionate commitment to defending the West and its
cultural values. Karp is a polymath: He and his co-author, Nicholas
Zamiska, take the reader on an intellectual tour from anthropology to
art and music to history and philosophy to explain what matters for our
survival and success. He subtly quotes many brilliant thinkers, but I
think the best summation of Karp's own iconoclastic style in creating
his wildly innovative software company, Palantir, is a quote from the
comedian John Mulaney: 'Likability is a jail.' "

[[---David Ignatius, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}*Washington Post*
columnist and bestselling author of *Phantom Orbit*

"Alex Karp is what the Germans call a *Querdenker*---an orthogonal
thinker, if not a downright contrarian one. Convinced that software
could provide a service to national security as well as consumer
gratification, he has built a unique business. *The Technological
Republic* combines fascinating insights into Palantir's mode of
operation (it's influenced by the way bees swarm, comedians improvise,
and Isaiah Berlin thought) with Karp's uncompromisingly national-liberal
political philosophy. This is a stirring manifesto for a new Manhattan
Project to ensure U.S. victory in the AI-enabled wars of the future.
'Silicon Valley, awake!' is Karp and Zamiska's message. 'You risk losing
everything if you choose cynicism over patriotism.' "

[[---Niall Ferguson, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}Milbank Family
Senior Fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution and *New York
Times* bestselling author of *The Ascent of Money* and *Doom*

[]{#page_b .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="b"}"In today's complicated geopolitical, technological, and
economic environment, the authors' ability to be both well spoken and
outspoken in *The Technological Republic* can help us understand
important issues about the future prosperity of the United States and
its allies. The book is by turns provocative and insightful, and Alex
Karp's resilience, patriotism, and depth of experience in our rapidly
changing world provide instructive lessons and intellectual arguments
for all of us to consider."

[[---Jamie Dimon, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}chairman and CEO of
JPMorgan Chase

"*The Technological Republic* should be read by everyone who cares about
how technology should contribute to the protection of American values
and our security. Alex Karp and co-author Nicholas Zamiska are unafraid
to offend those among the technocratic elite who have drifted away from
vital national questions to instead develop a smug and complacent focus
on shopping websites, photo-sharing apps, and other shallow but wildly
lucrative endeavors. To them, there is no point to fighting over who
gets the most luxurious stateroom on the *Titanic*. Without a renewed
commitment to addressing the most existential national threats we face,
serious risks to our country will continue to grow---rendering mere
business success quite hollow. Readers may not agree with every
observation in this compelling, essential book, but it demands to be
read, particularly at this dawn of the age of Artificial Intelligence.
Alex Karp is a true patriot---a loving critic of his industry and his
country who wants them both to be better."

[[---General James N. Mattis ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}(USMC
Retired)

"Karp's rallying cry for a 'Technological Republic' sets out clearly
what must happen for the democratic world to maintain its preeminence in
the age of artificial intelligence. Engineers and technologists must use
their talents to ensure the digital future enhances our democratic
freedoms, not undermines them. This book is a wake-up call for tech
entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley and beyond."

[[---Anders Fogh Rasmussen, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}founder of
the Alliance of Democracies Foundation and former NATO Secretary General
(2009--2014)
:::
