::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_171 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="171"}Chapter Fifteen {#chapter-fifteen .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [Into the Desert]{.char-ccust50} {#into-the-desert .para-ct}

I[[n late 1906, Francis Galton, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}a
British anthropologist, traveled to Plymouth, England, in the country's
southwest, where he attended a livestock fair. His interest was not in
purchasing the poultry or cattle that were available for sale at the
market but in studying the ability of large groups of individuals to
correctly make estimates. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText439}Nearly eight
hundred visitors at the market had written down estimates of the weight
of a particular ox that was for sale. Each person had to pay six pennies
for a chance to submit their guess and win a prize, which deterred, in
Galton's words, "practical joking" that might muddy the results of the
experiment. The median estimate of the 787 guesses that Galton received
was 1,207 pounds, which turned out to be within 0.8 percent of the
correct answer of 1,198 pounds. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText440}It was a
striking result and would prompt more than a century of research and
debate about the wisdom of crowds and their ability to more accurately
make estimates, and indeed predictions, than a chosen few.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText441}For Galton, the experiment pointed to
"the trustworthiness of a democratic judgment."

But why must we always defer to the wisdom of the crowd when it comes to
allocating scarce capital in a market economy? We seem to have
unintentionally deprived ourselves of the opportunity to engage in a
critical discussion about the businesses and endeavors that ought to
exist, not merely the ventures that could. The wisdom of the
[]{#page_172 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="172"}crowd at the height of the rise of Zynga and Groupon in 2011
made its verdict clear: these were winners that merited further
investment. Tens of billions of dollars were wagered on their continued
ascent. But there was no forum or platform or meaningful opportunity for
anyone to question whether our society's scarce resources *ought* to be
diverted to the construction of online games or a more effective
aggregator of coupons and discounts. The market had spoken, so it must
be so.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText442}We have, as Michael Sandel of Harvard
has argued, been so eager "to banish notions of the good life from
public discourse," to require that "citizens leave their moral and
spiritual convictions behind when they enter the public square," that
the void left behind has been filled in large part by the logic of the
market---what Sandel has described as "market triumphalism." And the
leaders of Silicon Valley have for the most part been content to submit
to this wisdom of the market, allowing its logic and values to supplant
their own. It is our own temerity and unwillingness to risk the scorn of
the crowd that have deprived us of the opportunity to discuss in any
meaningful way what the world that we inhabit should be and what
companies should exist. The prevailing agnosticism of the modern era,
the reluctance to advance a substantive view about cultural value, or
lack thereof, for fear of alienating anyone, has paved the way for the
market to fill the gap.

The drift of the technology world to the concerns of the consumer both
reflected and helped reinforce a certain technological escapism---the
instinct by Silicon Valley to steer away from the most important
problems we face as a society toward what are essentially the minor and
trivial yet solvable inconveniences of everyday consumer life, from
online shopping to food delivery. An entire swath of challenges from
national defense to violent crime, education reform to medical research,
appeared to many to be too intractable, too thorny, and too politically
fraught to address in any real way. Most []{#page_173 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="173"}were content to
set the hard problems aside. Toys, by contrast, did not talk back, hold
press conferences, or fund pressure groups. The tragedy is that it has
often been far easier and more lucrative for Silicon Valley to serve the
consumer than the public, and certainly less risky.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

The question of whether science and technology should be deployed to
address violent crime in the United States has always been provocative.
The history of abuses of power by U.S. law enforcement agencies,
including by the FBI under J. Edgar Hoover and others, and incursions
into the private lives of American citizens, is beyond dispute.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText443}An FBI file on the writer James Baldwin
had swelled to 1,884 pages by 1974. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText444}Such
invasions of personal privacy set the stage for a certain dualism in the
debate over the twentieth century; either technological advances,
including fingerprints, DNA, and later facial recognition systems, were
essential to the difficult and often fruitless task of dismantling
violent criminal networks, or they were the tools by which an
overreaching state would target the powerless and imprison the innocent.

The next wave of technical breakthroughs, including the deployment of
artificial intelligence to assist police departments, will only fuel
this debate further and is set to reshape our sense of the possible when
it comes to law enforcement and computing.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText445}A number of defense contractors, for
example, including BAE Systems, working with the National Physical
Laboratory in the United Kingdom, have developed gait recognition
systems---software programs that are capable of identifying an
individual based on little more than video footage of the person
walking, without any access to an image of the individual's face. The
technology has been under development for more than a decade and is
improving in accuracy every day. Small []{#page_174 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="174"}flying drones
operated by police departments can now approach a car window and break
the glass, allowing police officers to take an unobstructed shot at
someone within.

Our fear, of course, is that these sorts of emerging technologies might
be used and misused, intentionally or otherwise, to detain or harm the
innocent. The possibility of even a single abuse of the software that we
are building must guide its construction and deployment. The
administration of criminal justice is not the place for pragmatism, for
some permissible degree of tolerance for error.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText446}François-Marie Arouet, better known by
his pen name, Voltaire, wrote in 1749 that it would be preferable to set
two guilty men free rather than imprison one who is "virtuous and
innocent." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText447}In the eighteenth century,
William Blackstone, one of England's greatest legal minds, went further,
writing that it would be better to allow "ten guilty persons escape than
that one innocent suffer"---a ratio that would come to structure debate
about errors, permissible or otherwise, in criminal justice.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText448}Thomas Starkie, a British academic and
lawyer who was born in the late eighteenth century, argued for allowing
ninety-nine guilty criminals or more to walk free in order to ensure
that a single innocent person would not be wrongfully imprisoned. The
problem is not a fulsome and contentious debate about the merits of
incorporating new technologies in the context of policing or criminal
investigations. Rather, a fear of the unknown is too often used to
abdicate responsibility for navigating any degree of uncertainty or
complexity, and indeed possibility that technology could be misused.

Attempts to deploy software alongside law enforcement agencies in
American cities have continued to be met with significant skepticism and
distrust. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText449}In 2012, Palantir began
working with the New Orleans Police Department to provide officers with
access to the same software platform that had been used by U.S. Special
Forces and intelligence analysts in Afghanistan to predict the placement
of roadside bombs and capture those making them. The challenge for
[]{#page_175 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="175"}police officers in New Orleans and across the country was
similar to what the U.S. Army had faced in attempting to disrupt the
proliferation of bombs that were killing soldiers: too much information,
and a complete lack of the underlying software architecture that would
allow such information to be integrated and analyzed in any meaningful
way. Criminal investigators and police officers in New Orleans needed a
better system for stitching together the patchwork of information they
had about criminal networks and tackling gun violence.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText450}The use of our platform, known as
Gotham, spread quickly across the police department, with the
*Times-Picayune* describing the system as "a one-stop shop for pulling
up and cross-referencing information," and "discovering unseen
connections among victims, suspects or witnesses."

The critics, however, were swift and fierce. The reaction, indeed, was
visceral for many. Why should New Orleans permit the deployment of a
software system designed for use in a foreign war on the streets of the
city at home? []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText451}In an essay published in
2018, a policy analyst with the American Civil Liberties Union wrote
that the use of data in the context of law enforcement was "deeply
problematic," given the threats to the civil rights and liberties of
individuals who might be unfairly and unconstitutionally targeted by law
enforcement as a result of the use of analytical software by the police.
The moral outrage and indignation were directed against the application
of a novel technology instead of the failure of the city's government to
guard its residents. The country spent \$25 billion to protect soldiers
in Afghanistan from the threat of roadside bombs, but when it came to
preventing the loss of American lives in our nation's cities, at the
hands of the depraved, the mentally ill, and often extraordinarily
well-resourced and ruthless violent gangs, the collective reaction is
more often one of apathy and resignation.

Other technology firms have attempted, and abandoned, similar projects
involving the use of software and artificial intelligence in the context
of local law enforcement. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText452}In June 2020,
Amazon decided []{#page_176 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="176"}to prohibit the use of its widely
available and popular facial recognition software by police departments,
after the company faced criticism that its system might be used to
wrongfully target the innocent. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText453}That
same month, IBM went even further, announcing that it would abandon all
research and development into facial recognition capabilities.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText454}The company's chief executive officer
sent a letter to Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris, among others,
expressing his company's opposition to the use of the technology "for
mass surveillance, racial profiling," and "violations of basic human
rights and freedoms." The letter was representative of an ascendant form
of hollow and meaningless corporate pronouncement, condemning an evil
for which nobody is advocating. The subtle, interesting, and difficult
discussion was not whether the abuse of such systems was justified but
rather whether their proper use had any role to play in stemming
violence in our cities. Thousands of people are murdered every year in
this country. Hundreds of thousands and arguably millions more live in
the shadow of such violence. For many critics of the use of software by
local law enforcement, those lives hardly seemed to matter much in the
moral calculus.

The rest of the country, and many politicians across the United States,
have essentially shrugged when it comes to violent crime, abandoning any
serious efforts to address the problem or take on any risk with their
constituencies or donors in coming up with novel solutions and
experiments in what should be a desperate bid to save lives. The price
imposed on entrants into these areas has become incredibly high. And the
message, implicit and often explicit, to those in Silicon Valley and
across the technology sector has been plain. Steer clear. It was a
deeply cynical response to violence that many of those in power in the
United States have essentially abandoned any responsibility for
addressing. Our representatives in Washington and elsewhere have simply
turned their attention to less controversial terrain. Vast swaths of the
American landscape, from law enforcement to medicine to education, have
become innovation []{#page_177 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="177"}deserts where the Valley has been told,
and often warned repeatedly, not to tread.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText455}The view that advanced technology and
software have no place in local law enforcement is an archetypal "luxury
belief," to use the term of the author Rob Henderson.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText456}Such beliefs are ones that a privileged
elite can afford to take on, almost as a cloak, as the columnist David
Brooks of the *New York Times* put it, but that strike many as woefully
"out of touch to people in less privileged parts of society." For those
living under the constant assault of gunfire, for example, the thought
of reducing support and funding for law enforcement struck many as an
odd joke, the sort of campaign that had more to do with advancing a
perception of political victory than actually shaping or advancing any
outcomes on the ground.

The more fundamental issue is that the left establishment has decided,
essentially unilaterally, that it need not be in conversation or
dialogue with the right---that mere engagement with the other is itself
a sign of cultural betrayal. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText457}When Peggy
Noonan noted in a 2019 essay that the distaste by the Washington
establishment for the current brand of American populism was, at its
core, "almost aesthetic," she was absolutely correct in identifying the
left's most pernicious weapon: the ability to brand an entire swath of
political views---on issues ranging from national security, immigration,
abortion, to law enforcement---as essentially lowbrow and uncouth. This
is where Silicon Valley and other progressives have unfortunately and
unwittingly deprived themselves of power in the cultural conversation.
Their refusal to engage with the political claims and demands of
essentially half of the country risks marginalizing their own agenda.

We have begun to privilege the symbolism of victory, the more theatrical
elements and outward displays that constitute expression []{#page_178
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="178"}of our
own moral superiority, over actual, and often less than visible,
advances and improvements in standards of living and quality of life.
And yet it is the zealous pursuit of those advances and outcomes that
forms the bedrock of the engineer's approach to the world and the basis
of a technological republic. The risk is that we abandon a moral or
ethical system oriented around results---the outcomes that matter most
to people (less hunger, crime, and disease)---in favor of a far more
performative discourse, where the management of messages around such
outcomes eclipses the importance of the outcomes themselves. And the
reconstruction of a technological republic will, among other things,
require the rebuilding of an ownership society, a founder culture that
came from tech but has the potential to reshape government, where nobody
is entrusted with leadership who does not have a stake in their own
success.
:::
