::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_190 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="190"}Chapter Seventeen {#chapter-seventeen .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [The Next Thousand Years]{.char-ccust50} {#the-next-thousand-years .para-ct}

I[[n 1993, Robin Dunbar, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}a British
anthropologist, attempted to calculate the maximum number of individuals
with whom a person could plausibly maintain functional social
relationships. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText488}He surveyed the size of
bands of humans who live in hunter-gatherer societies, from southern
Africa to New Guinea to northern Canada, and came up with an average of
148.4 individuals per group, with the smallest community studied having
90 members and the largest 221. The figure, more often rounded to an
even 150 people, has come to be known as Dunbar's number, and represents
a sort of theoretical upper limit to the size of a human community whose
members maintain direct contact and relationships with everyone else.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText489}The Hutterites, for example, descendants
of Protestants from Switzerland and elsewhere in central Europe who
sought refuge across the American Midwest and Canada in the nineteenth
century, themselves identified 150 as the upper bound of the size of a
farming community, and a report from the U.S. Department of the Interior
from the early 1980s notes that when a group within a Hutterite enclave
reaches 130 to 150 individuals, "a daughter colony splits off from the
parent." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText490}Similarly, a study from the
early 1980s documented a community of 197 individuals living in the
remote mountains of East Tennessee, nearly all of whom considered
themselves related to some degree.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText491}Dunbar, who was born in Liverpool in
1947 and taught at Oxford, []{#page_191 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="191"}has noted that the rough upper bound of
150 individuals seems to operate in other contexts, including the size
of military formations within the Roman army as well as modern business
units in companies.

The task of maintaining human communities with significantly more than
150 or so individuals, of forming direct social relationships and
lasting bonds with that many people, is exceedingly difficult.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText492}The monkeys and great apes of the world
instinctively groom and comb the hair of other members of their groups
as a means of establishing social bonds. The trouble is that grooming
dozens let alone hundreds of other individuals on a regular basis
requires a very significant investment of time and creative energy.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText493}For humans, language, principally, fills
the gap, allowing us to form substantial connections, real but more
often imagined, with far greater numbers of people. The nations of the
world, and our sense of national identity or national culture, have been
made possible by both spoken and written language---allowing strangers
to build with collective purpose and for the public, not merely private,
good. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText494}Without those "imagined
linkage\[s\]," in the words of the political scientist Benedict
Anderson, the tether between individuals who will almost certainly never
meet or know one another directly, nothing of the modern era---from
medicine to cities to artificial intelligence---would be possible.

But what sustains communities of individuals that number in the
thousands or tens of thousands, millions, and even billions? What is
capable of binding us together, of offering some degree of cohesion and
common narrative that might allow large groups to organize around
something other than our own subsistence? It is, without any doubt, some
blend of shared culture, language, history, heroes and villains,
stories, and patterns of discourse.

Yet identification of anything approaching a national culture, or
values, has in recent decades become increasingly fraught and
problematic. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText495}In 2017, Emmanuel Macron,
the French president, gave an address in which he said, "There is not
*a* French culture.... There are []{#page_192 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="192"}cultures in
France." The remark sparked a round of furious debate in the country,
with Macron wading into a discussion that has structured life not only
in Europe for nearly half a century but also in America. His denial of
the existence of a single French culture, while attempting to highlight
the cultural diversity of the newly cosmopolitan country, struck at the
heart of French identity. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText496}Yves Jégo, the
mayor of Montereau-Fault-Yonne, a town on the Seine on the outskirts of
Paris, fired back at Macron in an essay in *Le Figaro*, critiquing the
president's stance as "contrary to the spirit of our republic." Jégo
made clear that the aspiration to preserve something in common did not
require a claim of superiority, and it did not deny that all cultures
are in a process of constant change. His point was instead that
abandoning hope of preserving a national and shared culture risks
"losing ourselves in materialism." The irony is that those often most
skeptical of the market, and the massive inequities that result from a
headlong embrace of capitalism, often fail to appreciate that their own
distaste for defending culture or concepts of nationhood leaves a void
that the market itself fills.

We, in America and more broadly in the West, have for the past half
century resisted defining national cultures in the name of inclusivity.
But inclusion into what? We have so hollowed out the national project
that one could argue that there is no longer much of substance into
which anyone might be included. A call today for affirming an American
culture, something greater than its constituent parts, risks being cast
as divisive and retrograde. Our sense of civic affiliation with one
another has been allowed to wither, and other means of fulfilling that
desire for interpersonal tethers have emerged, to fill the yawning gap,
including the sense of belonging and investment in a grand narrative of
triumph and defeat that can be found, for instance, in sport. Such
allegiances will emerge. We will find a way to build coalitions and
bands of warriors. To deny the human need for such affiliation has been
a mistake.

No country in the history of humanity has done more than the
[]{#page_193 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="193"}United States, imperfect as it may be, to construct a nation
in which membership means something more than a shallow appeal to ethnic
or religious identity. Are we to abandon any attempt at building on and
expanding that project? The United States, nearly two and a half
centuries after its founding, remains defined in part by its
contradictions. But other countries, including some of history's most
vaunted democracies, continue to struggle with adopting a less parochial
conception of national character. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText497}In
June 1996, Jean-Marie Le Pen, then the president of the National Front
party in France, dismissed the country's football team as "a bit
artificial," given the number of players who, while French citizens,
were descendants of individuals from overseas territories and Africa.

![Figure 13 ¶ Support for U.S. Major League Baseball Teams as of
2014](../images/012_Karp_9780593798690_all_art_r1.jpg){#page_193_img1
.fill}

The experience of living in the United States, for many, has grown too
fractured, too disparate for many to allow for such a broad aspiration
to something common and shared. Indeed, it is almost as if Americans
have ceded their ability to draft the country's cultural history to
others, abandoning space for any such discussion to the []{#page_194
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="194"}editors of foreign textbooks *about* America---to histories
being written by others from the outside looking in.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText498}Indeed, the editors of the textbook
*American Culture*, published in 2008 principally for students outside
the United States learning English as a second language, offered a pithy
and perhaps unintentionally critical assessment of the status of the
American national project: "The study of American culture has moved from
being a search for a national character or a national identity to focus
on American conflicts, within and without." The issue is that humans
will inevitably seek out ways of finding intimacy and connection with
strangers, with people they will never meet. Should we challenge the
nation's role in that process? Or allow it to step into a breach that
would otherwise be filled by an ascendant consumer culture, in which
identity and belonging are defined by what one can afford to buy and, as
a result, one's caste and wealth? This is, perhaps, the modern left's
most glaring strategic mistake. It claims to be committed to curbing the
excesses of the market, but its unwillingness to reckon with and take
seriously the good that can come from a national culture or shared
identity has only enabled the very excesses it purports to oppose.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

On October 3, 1965, Lee Kuan Yew gave a speech at an association of
Singapore's liquor retailers, hoping to drum up support for the newly
independent nation's cause. It had been only a couple of months since
the country split from Malaysia, and Lee was charged with convincing a
skeptical public that the island nation had a future on its own.
"[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText499}I am calculating in terms of the next
generation, in terms of the next hundred years, in terms of eternity,"
he said. "And believe you me, for the next thousand years, we will be
here." He added, "It is people who calculate and think in those terms
that deserve to survive." To many, Singapore's odds of survival after
separating from the British Empire and later winning independence from
[]{#page_195 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="195"}Malaysia in 1965 were slim. The tiny nation, not much more
than an island, lacked the natural resources or population that would
seem necessary for any sort of longevity. The country's citizens also
spoke nearly a dozen languages and came from distinct cultural and
religious traditions, each of which had ancient and deep roots in
southern China, on the Indian subcontinent, and across the Malay
Peninsula. Lee worked to manufacture some form of national identity for
the young country, stitching together what he hoped would become a
coherent whole from a diverse array of constituent parts. To that end,
he and others unabashedly involved Singapore's government in any number
of aspects of the private lives of its citizens, including everything
from appropriate manners to the search for a spouse.

At a political rally in 1986, Lee made the case that intervention in the
private domains of the country's citizens was a necessary component of
constructing and building a nation. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText500}We
sang different songs in different languages," he said. "We did not laugh
at the same jokes, because you can crack a joke in Hokkien," he added,
referring to one of the country's Chinese dialects, but "forty percent
of the population won't follow you." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText501}For
most of the twentieth century, at least twelve Chinese dialects had been
spoken in Singapore, including Cantonese, Hokkien, Hainanese, and
Shanghainese. The rise and increasing prominence of Chinese dialects in
the territory was a relatively recent development.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText502}The British colony, through the
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, had emphasized Malay, as
opposed to Chinese, given that, as one historian has noted, Singapore
was considered "part of a larger Malay world in which Malay was the main
lingua franca."

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText503}A government review completed in 1979
found that the vast majority of children in the newly independent
nation---85 percent---spoke a language other than English or Mandarin at
home. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText504}The authors of the report wrote,
"One of the dangers of secular education in a foreign tongue is the risk
of losing the traditional values of one's []{#page_196 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="196"}own people and
the acquisition of the more spurious fashions of the west." A shared
language was seen as vital to the nation's ability to defend its culture
against encroachment and indeed survive over the longer term. "A society
unguided by moral values can hardly be expected to remain cohesive under
stress," noted the government study, which came to be known as the Goh
Report, after its principal author, Goh Keng Swee, Singapore's deputy
prime minister under Lee. "It is a commitment to a common set of values
that will determine the degree to which people of recent migrant origin
will be willing and able to defend their collective interest."

A plan was hatched shortly thereafter to require that all Chinese
students learn Mandarin at school instead of the dialects that they had
been speaking at home. It was a decisive and controversial move, one
with far-reaching consequences for generations of the country's
families. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText505}Singapore used to be like a
linguistic tropical rain forest---overgrown, and a bit chaotic but very
vibrant and thriving," Tan Dan Feng, who served on the country's
national translation committee, said in an interview in 2017. "Now,
after decades of pruning and cutting, it's a garden focused on cash
crops: learn English or Mandarin to get ahead and the rest is useless,
so we cut it down."

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText506}For his part, Lee continued to make the
case that learning Chinese, and an ability to converse with citizens
across the country, was essential for the psychological development and
coherence of young Singaporeans of Chinese descent. And many credit Lee
for essentially rescuing the nation from devolving into a clash of
competing bands formed along ethnic or linguistic loyalties.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText507}Saravanan Gopinathan, a former dean at
the National Institute of Education in Singapore, wrote in 1979 that the
country's language policies were instrumental in constructing and
maintaining "the cultural personality of the nation." Lee later
considered relaxing his grip on the country's development in certain
limited domains. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText508}This is a new phase,"
he explained at the National Day rally in 1986. "Give them the option.
You decide. You make up your mind. You exercise the []{#page_197
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="197"}choice. You pay the price." The ascent of Singapore,
whatever the mix of causes that propelled its rise, has been undeniable.
In 1960, Singapore's per capita gross domestic product was only \$428.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText509}By 2023, its GDP per capita had risen to
\$84,734---one of the steepest and most unrelenting climbs of any
country in the twentieth century and perhaps in modern history.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

Few, if anyone, could take issue with the view that a single individual,
Lee, was absolutely critical to Singapore's rise over its first half
century of existence. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText510}As Henry Kissinger
put it, in the case of Lee's leadership, "the ancient argument whether
circumstance or personality shapes events" was "settled in favour of the
latter." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText511}That ancient argument had
stretched back to at least the nineteenth century, when Thomas Carlyle,
a Scottish historian, wrote in 1840 of "the Great Man" who had "been the
indispensable saviour of his epoch;---the lightning, without which the
fuel never would have burnt." The view that lone individuals were the
principal drivers of history was common at the time.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText512}The Panthéon in Paris, which was built
in the eighteenth century to house the remains of the country's most
distinguished politicians, philosophers, and generals, includes
sculptures of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Napoleon, in a pediment above
twenty-two soaring and imposing Corinthian columns. An inscription in
the stone, in large capital letters, is legible from the street: "Aux
Grands Hommes La Patrie Reconnaissante" (To the Great Men, the Grateful
Nation).

A singular emphasis on the acts and thoughts of lone individuals, in
assessing a sweep of human affairs that was also driven by economic and
political forces, among others, was undoubtedly misplaced. Many may also
be unable to look past the reference to men at the exclusion of women.
But why are we incapable of disavowing the sexism and parochial
sentiment without jettisoning any sense of the heroic as []{#page_198
.pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="198"}well?
Our shift away, as a culture, from this type of thinking, from
veneration of leaders, is both a symptom and a cause of our current
condition. We have grown weary and skeptical of leadership itself; the
heroic has for most gone the way of the mythological---relics of a past
that we tell ourselves are irredeemably rooted in a history of
domination and conquest. The loss of interest in this way of thinking,
narrow and flawed as it was, coincided with the culture's broader
abandonment of much interest in character or virtue---seemingly
ineffable concepts that could not be reduced to the psychological and
moral materialism of the modern age. Our mistake, however, was to throw
everything out, instead of simply the bigotry and narrow-mindedness.

The essential failure of the contemporary left has been to deprive
itself of the opportunity to talk about national identity---an identity
divorced from blood-and-soil conceptions of peoplehood. The political
left, in both Europe and the United States, neutered itself decades ago,
preventing its advocates from having a forceful and forthright
conversation about national identity at all---an identity that might
have been linked to a culturally specific set of historical antecedents
but rose up beyond them to encompass those who were willing to join.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText513}Indeed, a generation of academics and
writers refused to patrol the boundaries of the emotional nation at
all---the imagined community of Anderson.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText514}Richard Sennett, a sociology professor
at the London School of Economics, suggested that it may be possible to
find "ways of acting together" without relying on what he described as
"the evil of a shared national identity."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText515}The political philosopher Martha
Nussbaum similarly castigated "patriotic pride" as "morally dangerous,"
urging that our "primary allegiance" should be "to the community of
human beings in the entire world." Their project, essentially, was
post-national. That move, however, toward an abolition of the nation was
ill-advised and premature, and the left has been slow in recognizing its
mistake.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

[]{#page_199 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="199"}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText516}In 1882, Ernest Renan, a
French philosopher who was the descendant of fishermen, delivered a
speech at the Sorbonne in Paris that was titled "Qu'est-ce qu'une
nation?" ("What Is a Nation?"). []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText517}He was
among the first writers to attempt to distinguish the concept of a
nation from a more limited or narrow sense of ethnic or racial identity,
noting the "graver mistake" occurs when "race is confused with nation."
Renan gave voice to a far more enduring and robust concept of the
nation, that grand and mysterious collective project, in a way that the
educated class all but abandoned in the postwar period. He described the
nation as "a vast solidarity, constituted by the sentiment of the
sacrifices one has made and of those one is yet prepared to make." A
national project, for Renan, "presupposes a past," but is "summarized in
the present by a tangible fact: consent, the clearly expressed desire to
continue a common life." It is that "common life" with which we are at
risk of losing touch. Renan famously described the nation as "an
everyday plebiscite." And it must now be renewed.

The necessary task of building the nation, of constructing a collective
identity and shared mythology, is at risk of being lost because we grew
too fearful of alienating anyone, of depriving anyone of the ability to
participate in the common project. It is this disinterest in mythology,
in shared narratives, that we have as a culture taken too far.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText518}Palantir takes its name from *The* *Lord
of the Rings*, by J. R. R. Tolkien, and some have suggested that Tolkien
references are favorites of the "far right." The critique is
representative of the left's broader error, both substantive and
strategic. An interest in rooting the aims of a corporate enterprise in
a broader context and mythology should be celebrated, not dismissed. We
need more common tomes, more shared stories, not fewer, even if they
must be read critically over
time.[\[\*\]](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c017_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015eee "footnote"){#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015eee
.char-fnref .footnote_ref .noteref epub:type="noteref"
role="doc-noteref"}

[]{#page_200 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="200"}Such stories, the parables and small myths that animate and
make possible a larger life, will find refuge in other domains if we
continue to insist on excluding them from our civic and public lives.
Randy Travis, whose melodies spurred a sort of neoclassical revival in
country music in the 1980s and 1990s, recounted tales that had been cast
out by American culture as facile and nearly regressive. His song "Three
Wooden Crosses," which told the story of "a farmer and a teacher, a
hooker and a preacher," epitomized the type of parable that no longer
quite fit within ascendant elite culture---an unabashed and unironic
account of virtue and redemption. Yet Travis, and his music, remain
immensely popular among certain swaths of the public. Our yearning for
story and meaning has not withered. It has rather been forced to find
expression in domains other than the civic.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

The challenge is that a commitment to participating in the imagined
community of the nation, to some degree of forgiveness for the sins and
betrayal of one's neighbor, to a belief in the prospect of a greater and
richer future together than would be possible alone, requires a faith
and some form of membership in a community. Without such belonging,
there is nothing for which to fight, nothing to defend, and nothing to
work toward. A commitment to capitalism and the rights of the
individual, however ardent, will never be sufficient; it is too thin and
meager, too narrow, to sustain the human soul and psyche.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText519}James K. A. Smith, a philosophy
professor at Calvin University, has correctly noted that "Western
liberal democracies have lived off the borrowed capital of the church
for centuries." If contemporary elite culture continues its assault on
organized religion, what will remain to sustain the state? What have we
built, or aspired to build, in its place?
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText520}It is true, as Robert N. Bellah wrote in
1967, that there "exists alongside of and rather clearly differentiated
from the churches an elaborate and well-institutionalized civil religion
in []{#page_201 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="201"}America." He made the argument that "this religion---or
perhaps better, this religious dimension---has its own seriousness and
integrity and requires the same care and understanding that any religion
does." A loose constellation of "biblical archetypes," as Bellah put it,
including stories from Exodus and sacrifice as well as resurrection, may
be a start, but we have grown skeptical and dismissive of even those
modest references in public life.

The leaders of Silicon Valley are drawn from a disembodied generation of
talent in America that is committed to little more than vehement
secularism, but beyond that nothing much of substance. We must, as a
culture, make the public square safe again for substantive notions of
the good or virtuous life, which, by definition, exclude some ideas in
order to put forward others. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText521}It is the
"pluralism which threatens to submerge us all," as the moral philosopher
Alasdair MacIntyre has written, that must be resisted.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText522}It is now time, as he made clear, to
construct "new forms of community within which the moral life" can "be
sustained."

An aspirational desire for tolerance of everything has descended into
support of nothing. The contemporary left establishment inhabits a
prison of its own making. Like a caged animal, it is left to pace
furtively, unable to offer an affirmative vision of a virtuous or moral
life, whose content it long ago stripped away to the bare essentials.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText523}We must instead now conjure a new
"resolve," as the author and art critic Roger Kimball has written, and
indeed "self-confidence, faith in the essential nobility of one's regime
and one's way of life."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

In 1998, the German Publishers and Booksellers Association decided to
award its international peace prize to Martin Walser, one of the
country's leading writers and public intellectuals.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText524}Walser was born in 1927 in Wasserburg am
Bodensee, a town on the shore of Lake Constance, which sits at the
southern end of Germany and []{#page_202 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="202"}borders
Switzerland and Austria. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText525}His parents
were Catholic, and he grew up just as Hitler was coming to power in the
1930s. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText526}It would later emerge that he
joined the Nazi Party when he was seventeen years old, according to
reporting by a German magazine that had obtained a 1944 party
registration card with Walser's name from the German federal archives in
Berlin. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText527}Walser told the magazine that he
had likely been added to a party roster without his knowledge. He was
eventually recruited to the German army and served under Hitler's
command through the end of the country's defeat by Allied forces in
1945.

His complexity as a literary and moral figure was perhaps part of his
appeal to the German public, and to the publishers' association that had
awarded him the peace prize that year. For decades, the country had been
subsumed by moral debates and furtive efforts to construct an industry
of remembrance of Germany's descent into darkness in the late 1930s and
the 1940s. A certain exhaustion had taken hold, and the public, many of
whom by that point had been born well after the end of World War II, had
grown confused and fatigued by reminders of a horror in which their
parents or grandparents, but not themselves, had participated.

At his speech in St. Paul's Church in Frankfurt in October 1998, Walser
departed from the standard script of self-flagellation and dutiful
acceptance of what many believed was a nation's collective guilt and
responsibility. Instead, he suggested that the yoke of an enforced
remembrance should be thrown off and abandoned---that the imposition of
shame on a contemporary German public had ceased to serve any productive
purpose. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText528}Walser said, "Everyone knows
the burden of our history, our everlasting disgrace." He did not,
however, stop there. The daily reminders of Germany's past, for Walser,
were more of a self-serving attempt by the country's elite to relieve
"their own guilt" than anything else. Walser confided to the audience
that he had found himself turning away, refusing to look, at the images
of []{#page_203 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="203"}brutality that had become a routine part of German
television programming at the time. He explained, "No serious person
denies Auschwitz; no person who is still of sound mind quibbles about
the horror of Auschwitz; but when this past is held up to me every day
in the media, I notice that something in me rebels against this
unceasing presentation of our disgrace."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText529}Walser denounced efforts to, in his
words, trivialize Auschwitz, to make it "a routine threat, a means of
intimidation or moral bludgeon." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText530}A
commentator at the time noted that for Walser the moral failure of a
nation had "been instrumentalised by large sections of the media," as
well as a "dominant left-liberal intelligentsia as a means of defying
German national identity."

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText531}The audience during Walser's speech that
day included some of the most prominent figures of "the political,
economic and cultural German elite," an observer would later write.
Roman Herzog, the German president, was in attendance, along with
members of the publishing and financial industries.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText532}The moment was deeply cathartic for
nearly everyone listening, who, according to several accounts, stood up
at the end of Walser's speech to give the author sustained applause. He
had articulated the forbidden desires and feelings of a nation, and in
doing so relieved an immense amount of internal dissonance for his
audience, most of whom had been immersed in a culture in which speech
had been tightly patrolled and monitored for even the slightest signs of
deviation from the received wisdom, the national consensus.

A lone figure in the audience that day declined to stand and applaud.
Ignatz Bubis, the chair of the Central Council of Jews in Germany and a
towering figure of moral authority in the country, believed that
Walser's remarks, while strenuously couched in language aimed at
providing cover against charges of antisemitism, were essentially
divisive, threatening to take the country back, not forward.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText533}The day after the speech, Bubis issued a
statement to the []{#page_204 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="204"}German press accusing Walser of
"spiritual arson," or *geistige* *Brandstiftung*. The two, Walser and
Bubis, engaged in a lengthy public debate that captivated the public,
with dueling factions lobbying for either holding on to the past or
letting it go.

For us, today, the episode provides a reminder of the discomfort and
challenges in pressing forward with the task of stitching together
something shared from the disparate strands of individual experience. An
intense skepticism of German identity, of allowing any sense of the
nation to take hold in the wreckage of the war, has had significant
costs and deprived the continent of a credible deterrent to Russian
aggression. The dismantling of a German national project was, of course,
necessary after its descent into madness in the 1930s and 1940s. But
many have strained to ensure that nothing quite substantial is permitted
to rise from the ashes. This is a mistake, and one that we, in America
and other countries, are at risk of repeating. Our persistent unease
with broader forms of collective identity must be set aside. To abandon
the hope of unity, which itself requires delineation, is to abandon any
real chance of survival over the long and certainly very long term. The
future belongs to those who, rather than hide behind an often hollow
claim of accommodating all views, fight for something singular and new.
:::

::: {#d1-d2s11d3s4_footnotes .footnotes .footnotes epub:type="footnotes"}
[Skip Notes](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c018_r1.xhtml)

::: {#_footnote_d1-00015eee .footnote .footnote epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"}
[[\*](Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c017_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015eee "footnote reference"){.footnote
role="doc-backlink"} ]{.footnoteNum}See, for example, an essay by Rowan
Williams, the former archbishop of Canterbury: Rowan Williams, "Master
of His Universe: The Warnings in JRR Tolkien's Novels," *New Statesman*,
August 8, 2018.
:::
:::
