::: page_top_padding
[•]{.char-ccust4}

## []{#page_130 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="130"}Chapter Twelve {#chapter-twelve .para-cn-chap-pg}

## [The Disapproval of the Crowd]{.char-ccust50} {#the-disapproval-of-the-crowd .para-ct}

I[[n 1951, Solomon E. Asch, ]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-first}a professor
of psychology at Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, conducted a
seemingly straightforward study on the human inclination to conform when
faced with pressure from a group---an experiment that would prompt a far
broader reckoning with the fragility of the human mind. And it was one
of a number of studies in the early postwar period that captured an
essential feature of our psychology that must be overcome in order to
construct a company from scratch.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText313}Asch was born in Warsaw in 1907, in what
was then the Russian Empire. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText314}When he was
thirteen years old, his family immigrated to New York, where he attended
City College and later earned his doctorate at Columbia University. In
his conformity experiments, which exposed to a broad audience the
limitations of human willpower to resist the pressure of the group, Asch
arranged for an instructor in a classroom to show placards with a
control line, alongside three additional lines of varying heights, each
of which was numbered, to a group of eight individuals, only one of whom
was a true test subject. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText315}The other seven
were confederates of the experimenter. Each of the eight participants
was then asked which of the three numbered lines was the same length as
the control line. In the following example, the correct answer would be
line 2, which matches the length of the unnumbered control line on the
left.

![[]{#page_131 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="131"}Figure 10 ¶ The Asch Conformity
Experiment](../images/009_Karp_9780593798690_all_art_r1.jpg){#page_131_img1
.fill}

While the perceptual task was seemingly straightforward, a significant
number of test subjects, when asked after participants who had been told
to answer incorrectly, also themselves gave the wrong responses,
choosing lines that were obviously either longer or shorter than the one
being measured. They knew which answer was correct, but those around
them were disagreeing. It was disconcerting, and for some the dissonance
was overwhelming. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText316}As Asch later wrote,
the lone subject of study "faced, possibly for the first time in his
life, a situation in which a group unanimously contradicted the evidence
of his senses." It was an undoubtedly harrowing and uncomfortable moment
for the test subject, who was well aware of the correct answer but was
seated next to seven individuals who were, often unanimously, making the
wrong choice. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText317}For Asch, and many others,
the fact that "reasonably intelligent and well-meaning young people"
were "willing to call white black is a matter of concern," calling into
question the educational systems that our culture had produced as well
as our values as a society.

Asch's interest in conformity and the power of group pressure from a
psychological perspective was a reflection of questions about human
nature---about the human capacity to inflict harm on others---that had
arisen in the wake of the rise of the Nazi Party in Germany in the
1930s. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText318}A friend and colleague would
later recall that []{#page_132 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="132"}when it became clear that the number of
"yielders" in his studies, as they labeled those who buckled under the
pressure of the group, "was disappointingly large," they "all had to
learn to swallow that result, along with the lessons of the Nazi
successes." The experiments conducted by Asch, along with others such as
those performed in the following years by Stanley Milgram at Yale, had
put to rest any lingering hope that the American mind was somehow immune
from the pressures of group psychology that had overwhelmed the German
public across the Atlantic.

Asch's experiments marked the beginning of what some would describe as a
golden age of social psychology in the postwar period.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText319}The institutional review boards that
today carefully monitor proposed studies involving human subjects did
not exist. The departments essentially were left to police themselves,
and experiments on human subjects, including ones that required
significant levels of deception, were frequently permitted at the time.
While many would later challenge the ethics of allowing such experiments
to proceed, given the extent of the deceit and manipulation involved,
the tests arguably produced some of the most valuable research into
social and group psychology that has ever been performed.

The obedience experiment conducted in 1961 by Milgram, who had studied
under Asch at Princeton, went even further than the line comparison
tests from a decade before. Milgram, who was an assistant psychology
professor at Yale, designed his experiment on conformity in order to
assess not merely whether test subjects would buckle under the pressure
of a group when faced with a simple perceptual task, such as assessing
the relative lengths of lines, but rather their willingness to inflict
harm on innocent strangers when instructed to do so by an individual in
a position of apparent authority.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText320}Milgram was born in 1933 in New York,
and his father was a cake baker who had immigrated to the United States
from Hungary. His mother had left Romania as a young child. Milgram's
experiment involved the recruitment of hundreds of residents of New
Haven, []{#page_133 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="133"}Connecticut, to volunteer for what they
had been told was a psychology experiment involving learning and
punishment that was being conducted by Yale University.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText321}An advertisement seeking volunteers was
placed in the local newspaper, and Milgram's team followed up by sending
letters to randomly selected residents from the phone book to recruit
additional participants. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText322}Each of the
volunteers was paid \$4, as well as fifty cents for taxi rides to and
from the laboratory. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText323}The test subjects
were told that in the experiment they would play the role of a
"teacher," whose job would be to administer electric shocks to another
individual, known as the "learner," in order to assess whether the
shocks would assist the learner in memorizing random pairs of words,
such as "blue" and "box," or "wild" and "duck," more accurately.

The electric shock machine was made to look authentic, and almost
menacing, with knobs and lights, a buzzer, and various labels noting the
level of voltage that would be administered by turning the knob to
different positions. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText324}At the outset of
each session, participants were even given a mild shock themselves from
the machine in order to further convince the test subjects that they
would be administering actual electrical voltage as part of the
experiment. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText325}The learner, of course, was
in on the ruse, and played by a forty-seven-year-old accountant. The
electric shock machine emitted sounds and flashed lights, but could not
harm anyone. As the amount of voltage increased throughout each session,
the learner, however, would begin yelling and shouting, asking both the
test subject and the experimenter to halt the experiment. The question
was how far subjects would proceed notwithstanding his increasingly
desperate pleas to stop. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText326}Of the dozens
of individuals who participated in the experiment, a striking two-thirds
complied with directions to administer what they had reasonably been led
to believe was a harmful level of electrical voltage to an otherwise
innocent test subject. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText327}The results
captivated the country and sparked a debate about the human capacity for
inflicting harm at the direction of authority figures.

[]{#page_134 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="134"}[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText328}In one of the most haunting
sessions from the experiment, one of the volunteers, a fifty-year-old
man, whom Milgram later described as "a rather ordinary fellow," at
first protested mildly when asked to administer the series of
increasingly strong shocks to the victim. As the voltage approached what
appeared to be more dangerous levels, and the purported victim could be
heard shouting repeatedly to be let free and to stop the experiment, the
test []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText329}subject attempted to dissuade the
experimenter from asking that he proceed with the administration of a
180-volt shock.

[[Subject:]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-diaspk} I can't stand it. I'm not
going to kill that man in there. You hear him hollering?

[[Experimenter:]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-diaspk} As I told you before,
the shocks may be painful, but---

[[Subject:]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-diaspk} But he's hollering. He
can't stand it. What's going to happen to him?

[[Experimenter]{.fv-allsmallcaps}]{.char-diaspk} (*his voice is patient,
matter-of-fact*): The experiment requires that you continue, Teacher....
Whether the learner likes it or not, we must go on.

And go on he did. Over the next several minutes, the test subject
proceeded to administer a series of escalating shocks through shouts of
pain and protests from the victim, who pleaded repeatedly to let him out
of the room and stop the experiment. The transcript of the exchange is
absolutely striking. A certain decorum remained constant throughout the
session, notwithstanding the fact that one man believed that he was
shocking another to death. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText330}As Milgram
put it, "A tone of courtesy and deference is meticulously maintained."
For many, the dissonance between the measured dialogue of the test
subject and the experimenter, on the one hand, and the cries of agony
from the []{#page_135 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="135"}victim, on the other, challenged the
view that the capacity to inflict harm on the innocent was solely the
domain of the depraved. "[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText331}He thinks he is
killing someone," Milgram later wrote of the subject, "yet he uses the
language of the tea table." We had collectively perhaps hoped that the
destruction wrought during World War II had been the work of isolated
actors, an aberration from the ordinary capacities of the human mind.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText332}Milgram's experiment provided a jarring
and alternative explanation---that such a capacity was far more
commonplace, and indeed banal, than we had ever considered.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText333}Not all of Milgram's subjects, however,
were as compliant. One woman, a medical technician from Germany who had
grown up during the rise of the Nazi Party in the 1930s, stood out. At
one point during her session, as the setting on the shock generator
approached 210 volts, she paused, asking, "Shall I continue?"
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText334}The investigator leading the session,
who was a thirty-one-year-old biology teacher wearing a gray lab coat,
replied, "The experiment requires that you go on until he has learned
all the word pairs correctly." []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText335}He also
repeated that the shocks "may be painful" but were "not dangerous." The
subject then escalated the interaction somewhat: "Well, I'm sorry, I
think when shocks continue like this, they *are* dangerous. You ask him
if he wants to get out. It's his free will." Her act of defiance almost
seemed casual; its steely resolve both inspiring and unremarkable.
Moments later, she told the experimenter that she would not proceed with
shocking the victim at higher voltages and left. Milgram observed that
"the woman's straightforward, courteous behavior" and "lack of tension"
made her defiance appear to be "a simple and rational deed."

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText336}The psychological resilience that the
woman displayed was what Milgram had expected would have been the case
for most of those tested. His hopes, however, had been misplaced. Many
of those who participated in the experiment proceeded to administer what
they believed were significant doses of electricity to victims yelling
for the experiment to stop. The prevalence and indeed ease with which so
[]{#page_136 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak"
title="136"}many submitted were, of course, stark reminders of our
shortcomings as a species. But they also suggested a path forward, or at
least exposed the psychological obstacles around which one must maneuver
in business, in order to have any hope of creating something new.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

The instinct toward obedience can be lethal to an attempt to construct a
disruptive organization, from a political movement to an artistic school
to a technology startup. At many of the most successful technology
giants in Silicon Valley, there is a culture of what one might call
constructive disobedience. The creative direction that an organization's
most senior leaders provide is internalized but often reshaped,
adjusted, and challenged by those charged with executing on their
directives in order to produce something even more consequential. A
certain antagonism within an organization is vital if it is to build
something substantial. An outright dereliction of duty might simply hold
an organization back. But the unquestioning implementation of orders
from higher up is just as dangerous to an institution's long-term
survival. The challenge for businesses is that executives and managers
far too often select for and reward an unthinking compliance in those
they hire---a simpleminded obedience that is corrosive to building a
business capable of something more than execution on the whims of a
founder.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText337}The group of experiments by Asch,
Milgram, and others---now classics in investigational social
psychology---prompted an entire generation of psychologists and
academics to question the ability of individuals to resist the pressure
of authority and delivered something of a somber and enduring referendum
on humanity. Some had hoped that the experience in Europe had been an
aberration---that other nations, if tested, would not have succumbed and
indeed submitted to totalitarian rule without more fierce resistance.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText338}As Howard Gruber, a psychology professor
at Columbia University's Teachers []{#page_137 .pagebreak
epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" title="137"}College who had
studied under Asch, would later recall, the studies conducted by that
era's researchers made clear "that conformity is international." America
might have been exceptional, but not in all respects.

Some amount of what might be thought of as a sort of social deafness
may, in this way, be productive in the context of building software. An
unwillingness, or perhaps an inability, to conform to those around us,
to the cues and norms put forth by others, can be an advantage in the
realm of technology. A willingness to withdraw from the world, and to
decline to engage with external views at certain critical moments of an
organization's evolution, has been vital in the context of building
Palantir over the past two decades.

Other purported disabilities have, in different domains, proven
adaptive. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText339}In September 1922, Claude
Monet, after months of declining vision, was diagnosed with a cataract,
which, according to his Parisian eye doctor, had reduced the painter's
vision "to one tenth in the left eye and to the perception of light with
good projection in the right eye." He went through periods of seeing the
world tinged by an orange hue, then weeks later a blue cast. A surgery,
and the arrival of some German lenses, eventually helped address the
problem. []{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText340}His later works grew
increasingly and viscerally divorced from bare representation, including
a canvas, inflected with hints of teal and crimson, titled *Weeping
Willow*, whose "gestural lines," one art critic has noted, "blur the
image until it veers into abstraction."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText341}A retrospective of the painter's work
alongside that of the American artist Joan Mitchell, which opened in
Paris in 2022, suggested that Monet was responsible for the rise to
dominance of abstract expressionism that would follow in the decades
after his death in 1926.

[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText342}Similarly, when Ludwig van Beethoven
began losing his hearing in his twenties, he was at first intensely
guarded about his diminished capacity to listen to the very music that
he was building a career composing. In 1801, Beethoven wrote to a
violinist friend of his, "I beg you to treat what I have told you about
my hearing as a great []{#page_138 .pagebreak epub:type="pagebreak"
role="doc-pagebreak" title="138"}secret."
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText343}As news, however, of his hearing loss
became more widely known over the years, the public grew fascinated with
his seemingly otherworldly capacity for musical composition "in spite of
this affliction," as Beethoven's nephew wrote to his uncle. The
question, of course, is whether the perceived disability was a
disability at all---whether he was capable of composing such great works
*in spite of* his incapacity or rather *because of* it.
[]{#Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText344}Some have argued that Beethoven's
hearing loss merely redirected and perhaps augmented his creative
process, forcing him to rely more heavily on the act of writing out his
compositions, and thereby allowing him to construct "a novel sonic
universe," as one music critic has written, "because he was being led by
his eyes as much as by his memories of sound."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.para-orn aria-hidden="true"}
• • •
:::

The instinct to conform to the behavior of those around us, to the norms
that others demonstrate, and to prize the abilities that most around us
find second nature, is in the vast majority of cases extraordinarily
adaptive and helpful, for both our individual survival and that of the
human species. Our desire to conform is immense and yet crippling when
it comes to creative output. In Asch's experiments, there was a subset
of those tested who reliably buckled under the pressure each and every
time they were confronted with blatantly false reports of the relative
lengths of the lines they were shown. Another cohort never wavered in
correctly assessing their lengths notwithstanding the pressure of
others. It is this insensitivity to a certain type of social
calculation, and resistance to conformity, that has been essential to
the rise of Silicon Valley's engineering culture.
:::
