<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter Nine: Lost in Toyland, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding">
			<p class="ch-orn"><span class="char-ccust4">•</span></p>
			<h2 class="para-cn-chap-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_103" role="doc-pagebreak" title="103"/>Chapter Nine</h2>
			<h2 class="para-ct"><span class="char-ccust50">Lost in Toyland</span></h2>
			<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText258"/>
			<p class="para-pf dropcaps2line char-dropcap-DC" style="text-indent:0;">I<span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">n 1996, Toby Lenk, </span></span>a vice president of corporate strategic planning at the Walt Disney Company, was offered a job leading the entertainment giant’s theme park division—the iconic group that had opened Disneyland, in California, in 1955, and later Disney World, in Florida, in 1971. He, along with hundreds of others across the American corporate landscape at the time, however, was captivated by a different magical realm: the internet, and the inroads the technology had made into homes and consumer culture. Lenk, who was born in Framingham, Massachusetts, and had earned an MBA at Harvard Business School after attending college at Bowdoin, decided to leave the relative safety of the Disney empire to found his own company, selling toys on the internet.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The company, eToys, was for a brief moment the envy of much of Silicon Valley. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText259"/>At its height, the company’s market capitalization reached $10 billion after its IPO in 1999, only two years after its founding. Lenk himself might have been worth $850 million at one point. For many investors searching for their next wager, he “stood out as a grown-up” in the startup space, “at a time when Wall Street money was cascading down on barely postpubescent entrepreneurs,” as one journalist put it. The surge of interest from an emerging venture capital community, and later the broader public, was unrelenting. It was clear to everyone that a historic shift in the way commerce <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_104" role="doc-pagebreak" title="104"/>would be conducted had arrived. And the race to begin selling goods online had begun.</p>
			<p class="para-p">Lenk’s pitch was anything but contrarian in light of the prevailing mood among startups at the time. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText260"/>We’re losing money fast on purpose, to build our brand,” he told <i class="char-i">Advertising Age</i> in an interview in June 1998. For some, the unrepentant abandonment of the old rules of business, including the inconvenient requirements of traditional accounting and the goal of profitability, exposed the hubris of this new rush of founders. Others, however, appreciated the new time horizon that they, and their ventures, sought to embrace. The arrival of the internet had upended global commerce, and the effects of that shift would be revealed not over months or years but over generations. The time for investment, and perhaps losses, was now. The approach of eToys was nearly identical to that of the flood of other, similar startups—from Pets.com (pet supplies) to Boo.com (clothing) to Kozmo (groceries and video games)—racing to monetize the shift of shopping to the internet. Take the market, first. Profits, second. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText261"/>An estimated fifty thousand companies with $256 billion in funding were formed at the height of the growing bubble.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The appeal of eToys was that its business model did not require much imagination. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText262"/>As a <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i> profile of the company noted during its ascent, “To a person searching for wooden trains, eToys seems like an online version of the corner toy shop; to a person hunting for the latest ‘Star Wars’ paraphernalia, it’s a giant toy store without the battling crowds.” It was clear to everyone, including the investing public, the benefits of moving sales of toys online. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText263"/>In May 1999, in its S-1 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission prior to its IPO the following month, eToys outlined the current friction in the shopping experience for many parents, listing twelve steps involved, including “circle parking lot 4 times for parking space,” “lose one child in the Barbie section,” “drive home,” and, belatedly, “remember you need gift wrap.” There were some skeptics, but Lenk was unconcerned. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText264"/>There is all this talk about <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_105" role="doc-pagebreak" title="105"/>Toys ‘R’ Us and Wal-Mart, blah, blah, blah,” he said in 1999, with characteristic confidence if not bluster. “We have first mover advantage, we have defined a new area on the Web for children. We are creating a new way of doing things.” His rhetoric mirrored that of a new breed of founder and heralded a new type of investing, focused not on marginal growth but on the aggressive disruption of incumbents and the construction of new monopolies.</p>
			<p class="para-p">For all of its ambition and revolutionary rhetoric, eToys was, still, a toy company. It was squarely focused on the consumer, and the business proposition was anything but ornate—sell more of the same thing through a different channel. Our critique here is not that the pursuit of consumer markets is misplaced but rather that such a single-minded focus on the consumer has come at the expense of other broader and more significant endeavors. We do not intend to fetishize a nonmaterial existence, casting consumption and objects of desire as the enemy to purity and enlightenment. To desire, even a toy, is to be human. To want is to situate oneself within the world. In a particularly intimate scene from <i class="char-i">Before Sunset</i>, the second film in Richard Linklater’s iconic three-part meditation on romance, with Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke, the two actors, the archetypical flaneurs perhaps, stroll through the streets of Paris on a sunny afternoon, over the course of a playful and meandering conversation. Hawke’s character, Jesse, offers the familiar challenge to the traps of consumption and to materialist desire. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText265"/>I just feel like I’m designed to be slightly dissatisfied with everything,” he says, wistfully. “I satisfy one desire, and it just agitates another.” Celine, played by Delpy, responds, winning the exchange: “But I feel really alive when I want something…. Wanting, whether it’s intimacy with another person or a new pair of shoes, is kind of beautiful. I like that we have those ever-renewing desires.”</p>
			<p class="para-p">The issue with eToys and others was not their interest in sating our wants or needs. It was the shallowness of their ambition and abdication of everything beyond the light hedonism of the moment. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_106" role="doc-pagebreak" title="106"/>The energy of the era was directed at addressing the inefficiencies that would-be founders encountered in their own quotidian lives; it empowered a certain type of excavation of the problems of modern life, which against the backdrop of a broad and essentially successful challenge to any sense of a national project had become oriented around material culture. Everyone could be a founder, because everyone encountered things that needed fixing and better ways to navigate their daily lives. This democratization of the potential for producing novel ideas in business, to challenge incumbents, has been one of the most enduring effects of the rise of the consumer internet, its websites, and the avalanche of apps. Lenk, for example, told an interviewer in 1999 that he had additional business ventures that he was considering pursuing. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText266"/>I’m a keen golfer and there were no places that you could practise if you weren’t a member of a private club, no place to putt,” he explained. “I was going to try to create high-quality practice greens for the public.” His pitch of putting greens for the people was emblematic of the era. The excess of capital and lack of any broader or unifying collective project to focus the entrepreneurial energy that had been unleashed across the country had left founders turning inward, to address their own personal challenges, however idiosyncratic, which often meant managing the inconveniences and indeed indignities of daily life.</p>
			<p class="para-p">There was almost too much to <i class="char-i">disrupt</i>. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText267"/>The term itself would eventually be robbed of real meaning. The era of the casual founder, of indiscriminate disruption, had arrived. An initial cycle of genuine creation, built on the back of a novel technology that was capable of connecting every computer on the planet, had begun to degrade into something derivative. The artist Jean-Michel Basquiat, whose paintings in the 1980s demanded that the boundaries of what could be considered high art be redrawn, incorporated elements of graffiti and street art in his work. So much of what made his paintings original, however, would later be repurposed and recycled, almost endlessly, by a culture ravenous for even hints of the novel. Some of that <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_107" role="doc-pagebreak" title="107"/>borrowing and reassembly is itself new and fresh. But much is not. The same was true of the heady days of the rise of the young internet in the late 1990s. There was some real art being created, some Basquiats refining their craft. But most of the companies were lifeless and derivative works.</p>
			<hr class="transition"/>
			<div aria-hidden="true" class="para-orn">• • •</div>
			<p class="para-paft">For a later generation of founders, beginning in the 2010s and continuing today, the inconveniences of daily life for those with disposable income—hailing taxis, ordering food, sharing photos with friends—would eventually provide much if not most of the fodder for their inventions. The entrepreneurial energy of a generation was essentially redirected toward creating the lifestyle technology that would enable the highly educated classes at the helms of these firms and writing the code for their apps to <i class="char-i">feel</i> as if they had more income than they did. The cognitive dissonance for this generation was severe. They had the cultural and educational pedigree of an aristocracy but not the bank account. These were not the hereditary elites and blue bloods of a prior era. This was a new coalition, the product of America’s vaunted meritocracy and radical experiment to essentially throw open the doors to its most hallowed educational institutions to a new swath of talented young minds. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText268"/>But as Peter Turchin has argued, in his book <i class="char-i">End Times</i>, the unintended result of the country’s focus on higher education, as opposed to birth or caste, as the new means of constructing an overclass was an “overproduction” of elites that created too many qualified candidates for too few jobs.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The frustrations and resentments of those who perceive themselves to have been deprived of opportunities to which they are entitled can overwhelm the most resilient minds. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText269"/>Talcott Parsons, the American sociologist who was born in Colorado Springs in 1902, has argued that the majority of adult men are “condemned to what, especially if they are oversensitive, they must feel to be an unsatisfactory <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_108" role="doc-pagebreak" title="108"/>experience,” deprived of their rightful inheritance. Parsons was the last of a generation of theoretical sociologists whose work was unencumbered, or as critics would charge, uninformed, by empirical research.<a class="char-fnref footnote_ref" epub:type="noteref" href="Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c009_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015ebb" id="_footnote_referrer_d1-00015ebb" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a> His insights, however, were often all the more penetrating. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText271"/>In an essay on human aggression published in 1947, Parsons observed that many men “will inevitably feel they have been unjustly treated, because there is in fact much injustice, much of which is very deeply rooted in the nature of the society, and because many are disposed to be paranoid and see more injustice than actually exists.” And he went further. The feeling of being “unjustly treated,” Parsons noted, is “not only a balm to one’s sense of resentment, it is an alibi for failure.”</p>
			<p class="para-p">The creative energies of Silicon Valley engineers would end up being directed toward solving their own problems, which, for many, stemmed from a fundamental disconnect between the life they thought they had been promised as a result of their intellectual talents—a life of ease and wants sated, of car services and assistants at the ready to fetch meals and groceries—and the reality of their relatively modest incomes. This generation was told that they were bound to become the next masters of the universe, but there was little for them to inherit. So they would ultimately go about constructing the apps and consumer services that would create an illusion of the good life for themselves and their peers by making it possible to summon taxis, make restaurant reservations, and book vacation home rentals with only a few swipes on a phone.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The initial bubble of the late 1990s, of course, would ultimately burst. After sales at eToys lagged, the market grew increasingly impatient. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText272"/>In February 2001, the company’s shares traded for a mere nine cents a piece, after having reached a high of $85 only a few <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_109" role="doc-pagebreak" title="109"/>years before. eToys filed for bankruptcy that month. An entire generation of consumer internet startups was washed away in the reckoning. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText273"/>A year ago Americans could hardly run an errand without picking up a stock tip,” an editorial in the <i class="char-i">New York Times</i> stated on Christmas Eve in 2000. “What a difference a year makes.” The newspaper noted that eToys, for example, along with Priceline and many other “former Wall Street darlings, have seen their stock prices fall more than 99 percent from their highs.” <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText274"/>For his part, Lenk blamed the excesses of the moment, “this craziness, this frothing,” as he later described it, for his company’s fall from a quite fleeting grace. The conventional wisdom was that the capital markets, along with venture capitalists, were the principal culprits behind the collapse. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText275"/>In a postmortem of the crash published in May 2001, D. Quinn Mills, a professor at Harvard Business School, wrote that “traditional business plans and financial measures didn’t apply” to this new breed of startup. “Yet investors continued to use the old tools, pressuring start-ups for impossible specificity in their strategies and reckless speed in implementing them,” he added. The confluence of factors in driving the euphoria of the moment had been historic. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText276"/>The <i class="char-i">Guardian</i> noted at the time, from its arguably more neutral vantage across an ocean in the United Kingdom, that “the mania for technology stocks” had “all the ingredients for a roller-coaster ride from boom to bust—glamorous sounding products that investors knew little about, avarice, an economy firing on all cylinders, some dashing young entrepreneurs, a small army of cheerleaders in brokerage houses and in the media peddling the line that the rules of business had been rewritten.” The chapter had ended, and many in Silicon Valley were simply in awe of the scope and extent of the destruction.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The criticism of that early generation of startups focused on their lack of discipline and reckless spending, as well as the abandonment of any rigor or scrutiny from their investors. But there was a far more fundamental misallocation of resources, of capital and talent. The failing of that early internet era was its rush to serve the needs of the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_110" role="doc-pagebreak" title="110"/>consumer at the expense of those of the nation-state or public. And that focus on the consumer endures to this day. The lack of ambition from many startups today is and remains striking. Far too much capital, intellectual and otherwise, has been dedicated to sating the often capricious and passing needs of late capitalism’s hordes. Others have raised similar critiques. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText277"/>As David Graeber wrote, “Where, in short, are the flying cars? Where are the force fields, tractor beams, teleportation pods, antigravity sleds, tricorders, immortality drugs, colonies on Mars, and all the other technological wonders any child growing up in the mid-to-late twentieth century assumed would exist by now?” His interest was in disentangling the structural causes of the West’s failure to fulfill the promise of its own mythology of unrelenting scientific and technological progress. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText278"/>For Graeber, who described himself as an anarchist, the technology industry, and American culture more broadly, were at risk of being reduced to a sort of technical “pastiche”—the rearrangement and repurposing of existing content and breakthroughs. The end of innovation was perhaps coming into sight. The apps and games and video-sharing platforms that were being built en masse, that were consuming enormous sums of money and talent at the expense of more significant projects, were anything but idle and innocuous diversions. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText279"/>And the lasting effects and harm of this new form of screen-based competition for our attention, particularly on children, have only begun to be unraveled.</p>
			<hr class="transition"/>
			<div aria-hidden="true" class="para-orn">• • •</div>
			<p class="para-paft"><span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText280"/>At a gathering of lobbyists and economists in December 1996 in Washington, D.C., Alan Greenspan gave a speech in which he issued his now famous warning of “irrational exuberance” in the markets. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText281"/>The remark has come to define that particular moment of excess and spawned an entire industry of research and ongoing debate. But the investors hoarding shares of this new generation of companies were not wrong. They were just early. A small number of the startups <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_111" role="doc-pagebreak" title="111"/>from the era, including Amazon, Google, and Facebook, would go on to become some of the most dominant commercial enterprises in the world. The exuberance of the time had been not so much irrational as indiscriminate. Entire sectors, including enterprise software and defense and intelligence systems for the military, had also been overlooked in the rush to reimagine online shopping. There were vast expanses of opportunity that had been passed over by the wisdom of the crowds and the market.</p>
			<p class="para-p">Silicon Valley had made clear its disinterest in the work and challenges of government. The barriers to entry were too high, the budget cycles too long, and the politics too messy. But a wave of founders had, perhaps unintentionally, stumbled on something even more valuable than the software they were building: a new organizational culture and means of marshaling the talents of individuals. Many of the businesses were rightly swept aside. But it was the organizational culture that was left amid the economic wreckage, an engineering mindset that constituted a new approach to channeling the efforts of a group, that might have been the era’s most enduring and transformative product.</p>
		</div>
		<div class="footnotes" epub:type="footnotes" id="d1-d2s9d3s6_footnotes">
			<p class="footnote_skip"><a href="Karp_9780593798706_epub3_p003_r1.xhtml">Skip Notes</a></p>
			<div class="footnote" epub:type="footnote" id="_footnote_d1-00015ebb" role="doc-footnote">
				<p class="para-fn footnote"><span class="footnoteNum"><a class="footnote" href="Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c009_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015ebb" role="doc-backlink" title="footnote reference">*</a> </span><span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText270"/>An essay in <i class="char-i">Commentary</i> magazine from 1962 noted that Parsons, in “an intellectual milieu dominated by empiricists,” had “been able to ‘get away with’ (as he put it once, in an unusual moment of irony) Pure Theory.”</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>