<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Copyright, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding" epub:type="copyright-page">
			<p class="para-crtf-crt-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_iv" role="doc-pagebreak" title="iv"/><span class="fv-smallcaps char-scc">Crown Currency</span></p>
			<p class="para-crt">An imprint of the Crown Publishing Group</p>
			<p class="para-crt">A division of Penguin Random House LLC</p>
			<p class="para-crt"><a class="char-url" href="http://crownpublishing.com">crownpublishing.com</a></p>
			<p class="para-crtf">Copyright © 2025 by Alexander C. Karp and Nicholas W. Zamiska</p>
			<p class="para-crt">Penguin Random House values and supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to continue to publish books for every reader. Please note that no part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner for the purpose of training artificial intelligence technologies or systems.</p>
			<p class="para-crtf"><span class="fv-smallcaps char-scc">Crown</span> is a registered trademark and <span class="fv-smallcaps char-scc">Crown Currency</span> and colophon are trademarks of Penguin Random House LLC.</p>
			<p class="para-cipf">Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</p>
			<p class="para-cip">Names: Karp, Alexander C., author. | Zamiska, Nicholas W., author.</p>
			<p class="para-cip">Title: The technological republic: hard power, soft belief, and the future of the West / Alexander C. Karp and Nicholas W. Zamiska.</p>
			<p class="para-cip">Description: First edition. | New York: Crown Currency, [2025] | Includes bibliographical references and index. | Summary: “A sweeping indictment of Silicon Valley, showing how the West has slid into a culture of complacency, even as we enter a new era of mounting global threats”—Provided by publisher.</p>
			<p class="para-cip">Identifiers: LCCN 2024041592 (print) | LCCN 2024041593 (ebook) | ISBN 9780593798690 (hardcover) | ISBN 9798217086269 (paperback) | ISBN 9780593798706 (ebook)</p>
			<p class="para-cip">Subjects: LCSH: Technology and state—United States. | Technology—Social aspects—United States. | Western countries—Social conditions—Forecasting. | Regression (Civilization) | World politics—21st century. | Power (Social sciences)</p>
			<p class="para-cip">Classification: LCC T21 .K54 2025 (print) | LCC T21 (ebook) | DDC 352.7/450973—dc23/eng/20241209</p>
			<p class="para-cip">LC record available at <a class="char-url" href="https://lccn.loc.gov/2024041592">https://lccn.loc.gov/​2024041592</a></p>
			<p class="para-cip">LC ebook record available at <a class="char-url" href="https://lccn.loc.gov/2024041593">https://lccn.loc.gov/​2024041593</a></p>
			<p class="para-crtf">Hardcover ISBN 9780593798690</p>
			<p class="para-crt">International edition ISBN 9798217086269</p>
			<p class="para-crt">Ebook ISBN 9780593798706</p>
			<p class="para-crtf-alt">Editor: Paul Whitlatch | Production editor: Liana Faughnan | Text designer: Aubrey Khan | Print production manager: Dustin Amick | Proofreader: Kevin Clift | Indexer: Jay Kreider | Publicist: Tammy Blake | Marketer: Mason Eng</p>
			<p class="para-crtf">Cover design: Chris Allen</p>
			<p class="para-crtf-alt spaceabove" id="release_identifier_line">ep_prh_7.1a_150189547_c0_r0</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>