<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter Eleven: The Improvisational Startup, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding">
			<p class="ch-orn"><span class="char-ccust4">•</span></p>
			<h2 class="para-cn-chap-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_122" role="doc-pagebreak" title="122"/>Chapter Eleven</h2>
			<h2 class="para-ct"><span class="char-ccust50">The Improvisational Startup</span></h2>
			<p class="para-pf dropcaps2line char-dropcap-DC" style="text-indent:0;">F<span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">or years, new employees at </span></span>Palantir were given a copy of a somewhat obscure book on improvisational theater published in the late 1970s by Keith Johnstone, a British director and playwright. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText301"/>Johnstone is credited with articulating much of the theory underlying improv, as it has come to be known in the United States—an approach to acting that has in many ways overtaken the contemporary understanding of humor in film and television culture. The volume is slim and seemingly unrelated to computer science or building enterprise software. New employees were often surprised to receive it.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The parallels, however, between improvisational theater and the plunge into the abyss that is founding or working at a startup are numerous. To expose oneself on the stage, and to inhabit a character, require an embrace of serendipity and a level of psychological flexibility that are essential in building and navigating the growth of a company that seeks to serve a new market, and indeed participate in the creation of that market, rather than merely accommodate the needs and demands of existing ones. There is a breathless, improvisational quality to building technology. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText302"/>Jerry Seinfeld has said, “In comedy, you do anything that you think might work. Anything.” The same is true in tech. The construction of software and technology is an observational art and science, not a theoretical one. One needs to <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_123" role="doc-pagebreak" title="123"/>constantly abandon perceived notions of what <i class="char-i">ought</i> to work in favor of what <i class="char-i">does</i> work. It is that sensitivity to the audience, the public, and the customer that allows us to build.</p>
			<p class="para-p">Johnstone’s book also reveals one of the principal features of modern corporate culture that arguably inhibits the growth of an engineering mindset—the essential feature of an insurgent startup. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText303"/>He was born in 1933 in Devon, England, along the country’s southwest coast. His father was a pharmacist, and the family lived above its drugstore downstairs. In <i class="char-i">Impro: Improvisation and the Theatre</i>, which was first published in 1979 and has evolved into something of a cult classic among students of improvisational comedy, Johnstone blends a discussion of acting and human psychology as he reviews various exercises that he has used in his theater workshops with aspiring actors and improvisational comedians. His discussion of status, by which he meant the relative power relationship between two individuals in a given context, is particularly relevant for building flexible engineering cultures that are focused on outcomes as opposed to merely constructing and inhabiting elaborate and self-serving hierarchies. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText304"/>One of his central insights is that status, like other character traits, is in many ways <i class="char-i">played</i>, and that actors and improvisational comedians can elevate their craft by acquiring and refining a sensitivity to what Johnstone refers to as the status transactions and negotiations that result when two individuals encounter each other in the world. In the context of a lesson on acting, for example, he observes that subtle gestures and signals between two people onstage—such as an aversion to eye contact, a nod of the head, or an attempted interruption by one actor of the other—are all methods of negotiating and asserting status relationships relative to one another. The point is that stature, in the world or on the stage, is anything but fixed or innate. Rather, it is best thought of as an instrumental attribute or good—one that can, indeed must, be wielded in service of something else.</p>
			<p class="para-p"><span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText305"/>Johnstone’s interest and approach to status, and to exposing the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_124" role="doc-pagebreak" title="124"/>often invisible pecking orders around us, were influenced by the work of the Austrian zoologist Konrad Lorenz, particularly his 1949 book, <i class="char-i">King Solomon’s Ring</i>, a collection of observations on the social behavior of various animals, from jackdaws, a relation of ravens and crows, to wolves. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText306"/>The most dominant jackdaws, for example, are particularly dismissive of the bottom rungs of their flocks, Lorenz tells us, so much so that “very high caste jackdaws are most condescending to those of lowest degree and consider them merely as the dust beneath their feet.” The same could be said of the rigidity of internal cultures within a traditional business, with layers upon layers of hierarchy preventing ambition and ideas from rising to the top. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText307"/>For Johnstone, “every inflection and movement implies a status,” and “no action is due to chance, or really ‘motiveless.’ ” <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText308"/>In particular, a bifurcation of the “status you are and the status you play,” as Johnstone put it, is essential to maneuver effectively on the stage and in the world—to not be limited by the attempts of others to constrain one’s freedom of movement from a business or social perspective, or at a minimum to become more aware of those attempts at domination and to respond accordingly. One can also more readily identify pockets of talent and motivation within an organization once the veil of status, the constricting gauze through which everything is perceived in corporate life, is lifted.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The broader difficulty of traditional American corporate cultures is that they tend to require a union of the status that one <i class="char-i">is</i> and the status that one <i class="char-i">plays</i>, at least with respect to the internal forms of social organization within the business. The senior executive vice president at a company, for example, is too often a senior executive vice president in all contexts and for all purposes internally, and his or her rank with respect to others requires an unwavering dominance in areas where such dominance may or may not advance the goals of the institution. A turn toward more rigidity and structure within American businesses gathered pace after the <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_125" role="doc-pagebreak" title="125"/>end of World War II. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText309"/>By the 1960s, for example, the electronics manufacturer Philco, which was founded in 1892, had created an ornate internal hierarchy with accompanying rule books that specified the type of furniture executives were allowed to have in their offices based on their seniority within the company. This level of rigidity in internal social structure falls far, of course, from Lindauer’s swarm.</p>
			<p class="para-p">Along the lines of Johnstone’s <i class="char-i">Impro</i>, we have, at Palantir, attempted to foster a culture in which status is seen as an instrumental, not intrinsic, good—something that can be used and deployed in the world to accomplish other goals or aims. A significant misconception of not only the organizational culture of Palantir but many other companies with roots in Silicon Valley is that such companies have flat or no hierarchies. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText310"/>Every human institution, including the technology giants of Silicon Valley, has a means of organizing personnel, and such organization will often require the elevation of certain individuals over others. The difference is the rigidity of those structures, that is, the speed with which they can be dismantled or rearranged, and the proportion of the creative energy of a workforce that goes into maintaining such structures and to self-promotion within them.</p>
			<p class="para-p">We undoubtedly have some form of “shadow hierarchy” within the company, power structures that are not telegraphed explicitly but exist nonetheless. The lack of organizational legibility comes at a cost, increasing the price of navigation internally, for employees, as well as for outside partners, who often simply want to know who is in charge. But many discount the amount of open space that a de-emphasis on internal signs and signifiers of status, for thousands of employees, can create. The benefit of it being somewhat unclear or ambiguous who is leading commercial sales in Scandinavia, for example, is that maybe that someone should be you. Or what about outreach to state and local governments in the American Midwest? <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_126" role="doc-pagebreak" title="126"/>The point is only that voids or perceived voids within an organization in our experience have repeatedly had more benefits than costs, often being filled by ambitious and talented leaders who see gaps and want to play a role but might otherwise have been cowed into submission for fear of venturing onto somebody else’s turf.</p>
			<hr class="transition"/>
			<div aria-hidden="true" class="para-orn">• • •</div>
			<p class="para-paft">At many large companies across the United States and Europe, and around the world, it is now commonplace to routinely hold meetings of twenty, thirty, even fifty or more people on a weekly basis, and sometimes multiple times per day. More often than not, however, these gatherings are merely mechanisms through which corporate elites jockey internally for stature and resources. The faux presentations and talking points merely serve to advance the interest of politically talented, but often substantively less valuable, personnel whose principal contribution to the output of the corporation can be vanishingly hard to measure. These lengthy meetings are often preceded by even more internal pre-meetings, where employees prepare to meet with one another.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The meeting-industrial complex has driven some toward the edge and, apparently, even self-harm. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText311"/>A group of researchers at Harvard Business School interviewed 182 executives across industries, from the tech sector to consulting, and found a widespread feeling of being overwhelmed, suffocated by the volume and duration of meetings in contemporary corporate culture. One executive even confided that she had resorted to “stabbing her leg with a pencil to stop from screaming during a particularly torturous staff meeting.” Such meetings are mechanisms by which the ambitious self-promoters within an organization telegraph their status and power, and many talented but less manipulative colleagues simply choose to relent, at a significant cost to the institution.</p>
			<p class="para-p"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_127" role="doc-pagebreak" title="127"/>The principal limitation of contemporary corporate cultures is that the hierarchies and social organization of companies are far too rigid to accommodate new and shifting challenges. In January 1988, Peter F. Drucker, the management theorist whose work gave rise to an entire field of scholarship on the inner workings of large institutions, from General Electric to IBM, published an essay in <i class="char-i">Harvard Business Review</i> that argued a new model of management would soon come to dominate American businesses and large organizations. It was prescient. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText312"/>A symphony orchestra, for example, should, based on the prevailing conceptions of how organizations ought to be structured, have “several group vice president conductors and perhaps a half-dozen division VP conductors.” Orchestras, however, had no such layers. As Drucker explained, “There is only the conductor-CEO—and every one of the musicians plays directly to that person without an intermediary. And each is a high-grade specialist, indeed an artist.” Drucker’s central insight was that a direct line of contact—and indeed eye contact, in the case of an orchestra conductor—between a corporate leader and the creative producers within his or her organization is essential. And in our experience, the most talented software engineers in the world are artists, no different from painters or musicians. An unnecessarily structured organization alienates such talent from the goals of the institution at an enormous cost.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The flaw, and indeed tragedy, of American corporate life is that the vast majority of an individual employee’s energy during their working lives is spent merely on survival, navigating among the internal politicians at their organizations, steering clear of threats, and forming alliances with friends, perceived and otherwise. We and other technology startups are the beneficiaries of the sheer exhaustion that many young and talented people either experience or can sense from the American corporate model, which can be an unapologetically extractive enterprise that too often requires a redirection <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_128" role="doc-pagebreak" title="128"/>of scarce intellectual and creative energy toward internal struggles for power and access to information.</p>
			<p class="para-p">In this way, the legions who have flocked to Silicon Valley are cultural exiles, many of whom are extraordinarily privileged and empowered, but misfits and thus exiles nonetheless. They have consciously chosen to remove themselves from capitalism’s dominant corporate form and join an alternative model, imperfect and complex, to be sure, but one that at its best suggests a new means of human organization. The challenge, in this country and others, will be to ensure that the most talented minds of our generation do not splinter off and form their own subcultures and communities separate and apart from the nation. The homes that they find must be incorporated into the whole.</p>
			<hr class="transition"/>
			<div aria-hidden="true" class="para-orn">• • •</div>
			<p class="para-paft">We have over the past century essentially cast culture aside, dismissing it as overly specific and exclusionary. But in Silicon Valley—even as many have neglected national interests—a set of cultural practices has proven so generative of value, that we ought to take them seriously, and particularly as ideas that might provide a basis for rethinking our approach to government, and the provision of public services. Why should the private sector alone be the one to benefit? Many seem to be watching the rise of Silicon Valley at almost a distance, eager, of course, to make use of the contraptions and services that it has produced and occasionally indignant at the industry’s concentration of power, but essentially observing from afar. Where is the desire and urgency to co-opt and incorporate the cultural values that are the precondition for what the Valley has been able to build? One of the most significant mistakes made by observers of the technology industry’s rise is to assume that the software produced by such companies is the reason for their domination of the modern economy. It is rather a set of cultural biases and practices <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_129" role="doc-pagebreak" title="129"/>and norms that make possible the production of such software, and thus are the underlying causes of the industry’s success.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The central insight of Silicon Valley was not merely to hire the best and brightest but to treat them as such, to allow them the flexibility and freedom and space to create. The most effective software companies are artist colonies, filled with temperamental and talented souls. And it is their unwillingness to conform, to submit to power, that is often their most valuable instinct.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>