<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Praise, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding">
			<h1 class="para-fst-fs-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_a" role="doc-pagebreak" title="a"/>Advance Praise for <i class="char-i">The Technological Republic</i></h1>
			<p class="para-fsqf">“The wizards of America’s digital revolution have produced many shiny consumer products and apps. But they have often remained aloof from engaging in a sense of national purpose or common good. This book is a rallying cry, as we enter the age of artificial intelligence, for a return to the World War II era of cooperation between the technology industry and government in order to pursue innovation that will advance our national welfare and democratic goals. A fascinating and important work.”</p>
			<p class="para-fsqs"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">—Walter Isaacson, </span></span>#1 <i class="char-i">New York Times</i> bestselling author</p>
			<p class="para-fsqf">“Alex Karp’s book might be titled <i class="char-i">A Freethinker’s Manifesto</i>. He decries the arrogance and small-mindedness of Silicon Valley and explains his passionate commitment to defending the West and its cultural values. Karp is a polymath: He and his co-author, Nicholas Zamiska, take the reader on an intellectual tour from anthropology to art and music to history and philosophy to explain what matters for our survival and success. He subtly quotes many brilliant thinkers, but I think the best summation of Karp’s own iconoclastic style in creating his wildly innovative software company, Palantir, is a quote from the comedian John Mulaney: ‘Likability is a jail.’ ”</p>
			<p class="para-fsqs"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">—David Ignatius, </span></span><i class="char-i">Washington Post</i> columnist and bestselling author of <i class="char-i">Phantom Orbit</i></p>
			<p class="para-fsqf">“Alex Karp is what the Germans call a <i class="char-i">Querdenker</i>—an orthogonal thinker, if not a downright contrarian one. Convinced that software could provide a service to national security as well as consumer gratification, he has built a unique business. <i class="char-i">The Technological Republic</i> combines fascinating insights into Palantir’s mode of operation (it’s influenced by the way bees swarm, comedians improvise, and Isaiah Berlin thought) with Karp’s uncompromisingly national-liberal political philosophy. This is a stirring manifesto for a new Manhattan Project to ensure U.S. victory in the AI-enabled wars of the future. ‘Silicon Valley, awake!’ is Karp and Zamiska’s message. ‘You risk losing everything if you choose cynicism over patriotism.’ ”</p>
			<p class="para-fsqs"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">—Niall Ferguson, </span></span>Milbank Family Senior Fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution and <i class="char-i">New York Times</i> bestselling author of <i class="char-i">The Ascent of Money</i> and <i class="char-i">Doom</i></p>
			<p class="para-fsqf"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_b" role="doc-pagebreak" title="b"/>“In today’s complicated geopolitical, technological, and economic environment, the authors’ ability to be both well spoken and outspoken in <i class="char-i">The Technological Republic</i> can help us understand important issues about the future prosperity of the United States and its allies. The book is by turns provocative and insightful, and Alex Karp’s resilience, patriotism, and depth of experience in our rapidly changing world provide instructive lessons and intellectual arguments for all of us to consider.”</p>
			<p class="para-fsqs"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">—Jamie Dimon, </span></span>chairman and CEO of JPMorgan Chase</p>
			<p class="para-fsqf">“<i class="char-i">The Technological Republic</i> should be read by everyone who cares about how technology should contribute to the protection of American values and our security. Alex Karp and co-author Nicholas Zamiska are unafraid to offend those among the technocratic elite who have drifted away from vital national questions to instead develop a smug and complacent focus on shopping websites, photo-sharing apps, and other shallow but wildly lucrative endeavors. To them, there is no point to fighting over who gets the most luxurious stateroom on the <i class="char-i">Titanic</i>. Without a renewed commitment to addressing the most existential national threats we face, serious risks to our country will continue to grow—rendering mere business success quite hollow. Readers may not agree with every observation in this compelling, essential book, but it demands to be read, particularly at this dawn of the age of Artificial Intelligence. Alex Karp is a true patriot—a loving critic of his industry and his country who wants them both to be better.”</p>
			<p class="para-fsqs"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">—General James N. Mattis </span></span>(USMC Retired)</p>
			<p class="para-fsqf">“Karp’s rallying cry for a ‘Technological Republic’ sets out clearly what must happen for the democratic world to maintain its preeminence in the age of artificial intelligence. Engineers and technologists must use their talents to ensure the digital future enhances our democratic freedoms, not undermines them. This book is a wake-up call for tech entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley and beyond.”</p>
			<p class="para-fsqs"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">—Anders Fogh Rasmussen, </span></span>founder of the Alliance of Democracies Foundation and former NATO Secretary General (2009–2014)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>