<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter Eight: “Flawed Systems”, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding">
			<p class="ch-orn"><span class="char-ccust4">•</span></p>
			<h2 class="para-cn-chap-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_97" role="doc-pagebreak" title="97"/>Chapter Eight</h2>
			<h2 class="para-ct"><span class="char-ccust50">“Flawed Systems”</span></h2>
			<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText247"/>
			<p class="para-pf dropcaps2line char-dropcap-DC" style="text-indent:0;">I<span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">n January 1970, </span></span><i class="char-i">Time</i> magazine named “the Middle Americans” as person of the year. It was a departure from the publication’s ordinary practice of highlighting a specific individual and his or her contributions on the national or international stage. After the convulsions of the 1960s, including the decade’s radicalism and challenge to the reigning order, “the Middle Americans,” a cohort in the metaphorical heartland of the country, far from its coasts, “feared that they were beginning to lose their grip on the country,” the magazine wrote. “Others seemed to be taking over—the liberals, the radicals, the defiant young,” <i class="char-i">Time</i> continued. “No one celebrated them; intellectuals dismissed their lore as banality.”</p>
			<p class="para-p">The same might be said today. By the early 1970s, the divide that would come to structure contemporary American politics, including the current fissures in society half a century later, had begun to open. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText248"/>The division of the country by <i class="char-i">Time</i> into two parts, core and periphery, was an oversimplification, at best, and, at worst, a knowing appeal to a conception of American identity that predated the inclusion of a far more diverse array of minorities and immigrants. But it also captured an emerging fault line that would come to dominate American politics for decades—a divide that has only ever been loosely about policy disagreements, one that was more fundamentally concerned with culture and identity. The attacks at the time on <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_98" role="doc-pagebreak" title="98"/>conceptions of Western civilization, and more specifically on the internal contradictions of the American project—its claim to equality for all yet enforcement of discriminatory laws across broad swaths of the South—had only heightened the conflict. And the war in Vietnam, which seemed to have no end, along with the rise of the civil rights movement, including its direct attack on institutional complacency, had given rise to a thriving counterculture and challenge to the American establishment.</p>
			<p class="para-p">It was against this backdrop that the first glimmers of the digital revolution, of software and personal computing, and indeed artificial intelligence, took shape. The earliest collaborators and participants in the development of what would become the personal computer in the 1960s and 1970s were skeptical of government authority and had largely constructed their own identities and sense of self in opposition to the state. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText249"/>Lee Felsenstein, for example, who was born in Philadelphia in 1945 and later moved to Menlo Park, California, where he formed what would come to be known as the Homebrew Computer Club, one of the early groups that was focused on building prototypes of smaller computers for individual use, wrote, “We wanted there to be personal computers so that we could free ourselves from the constraints of institutions, whether government or corporate.” The personal computer, as pioneers like Felsenstein saw it, was a means of liberation and emancipation from government, not cooperation with it. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText250"/>Stewart Brand, co-founder of the <i class="char-i">Whole Earth Catalog</i>, an influential compendium for the counterculture movement of the 1960s, wrote in a 1995 essay that “the counterculture’s scorn for centralized authority provided the philosophical foundations of not only the leaderless Internet but also the entire personal-computer revolution.”</p>
			<p class="para-p">In the 1970s, the emerging set of technologies that would become the modern-day personal computer, as well as software more broadly, was being reinvented as a means of empowerment of the individual <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_99" role="doc-pagebreak" title="99"/>against the state, not a set of tools to be leveraged by the state to advance the national interest. It was an era of innovation in Silicon Valley that was driven by a mistrust of national governments, as well as frustration with their delay in adopting progressive reforms at home and their grand experiments and military misadventures on the world stage. This was not the technological revolution of Vannevar Bush or J. Robert Oppenheimer, who through much of their lives saw the purpose of technology as extending and enabling the American project. The individual, and later the consumer more specifically, would emerge as the principal object of this new industry’s desire and attention.</p>
			<p class="para-p">In 1984, the author and journalist Steven Levy published <i class="char-i">Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution</i>, an influential chronicle of that early period of innovation in software and personal computing. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText251"/>Levy articulated the ethos of the moment, which was deeply skeptical of institutional and state power. “Bureaucracies, whether corporate, government, or university,” he wrote, “are flawed systems, dangerous in that they cannot accommodate the exploratory impulse of true hackers,” designed “to consolidate power, and perceive the constructive impulse of hackers as a threat.” The human systems that government had created were too inflexible; new systems had to be built based on logic and rules instead of the capricious dictates of the elected class. The object of Levy’s critique, as well as that of his confederates at the time, was a calcifying American corporate culture. Levy described the IBM of the era, for example, as “a clumsy, hulking company that did not understand the hacking impulse.” The distaste for the corporate monoliths was nearly as much aesthetic as it was ethical. He continued: “All you had to do was look at someone in the IBM world and note the button-down white shirt, the neatly pinned black tie, the hair carefully held in place, and the tray of punch cards in hand.” And it was the conformity of those institutions that was thought to be central to their inability to drive change. <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_100" role="doc-pagebreak" title="100"/>For this emerging generation of hackers, the corporatism of postwar America and the apparatus of government were acting in concert to constrain innovation. The software and early computing devices that Felsenstein and others were building in Silicon Valley were intended to serve as a challenge to state power, not to enable it. They were not building software systems for defense and intelligence agencies, and they were certainly not building bombs.</p>
			<p class="para-p">This revolution, however, like others before it, would ultimately abandon much of its own idealism. The broader issue was that the “we” or “us” of America had so thoroughly been challenged and deconstructed—problematized, in the language of graduate school seminars today—that an entire generation of technologists turned its attention elsewhere, to the individual consumer. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText252"/>Steve Jobs, in particular, was a product of a waning counterculture movement in the United States, searching for purpose and direction after the conflict and storm of the 1960s began to recede. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText253"/>As an undergraduate at Reed College, Jobs, who would go on to lead Apple, which by some estimates would become the most valuable corporate enterprise in the history of civilization, immersed himself in a calligraphy class, where he recounted to his biographer Walter Isaacson that he “learned about serif and sans serif typefaces, about varying the amount of space between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography great.” His immersion in letterforms was not a detour from his core, animating interests. It was a result of them. Jobs continued: “It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science can’t capture, and I found it fascinating.” This blend of artistry and engineering would become the hallmark of Jobs’s design sensibility and was, for Isaacson, “yet another example of Jobs consciously positioning himself at the intersection of the arts and technology.” To be clear, Jobs was a radical and creative savant who saw the future and made it real. His ambition was to remake the world, not tinker at its margins. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText254"/>When attempting to court John <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_101" role="doc-pagebreak" title="101"/>Sculley, then president of PepsiCo, to persuade him to join Apple as chief executive officer, Jobs reportedly asked him, “Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water, or do you want a chance to change the world?”</p>
			<p class="para-p">Jobs’s revolution, however, was essentially intimate and personal. His principal focus was on constructing the products—including the mobile phones that now coexist with us on our person throughout our lives—that would liberate the individual from reliance on a corporate or governmental superstructure. And he did. His interest was not in building the means to advance a broader American or national project, or in enabling a closer collaboration between the technology industry and the state. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText255"/>Indeed, Apple objected to attempts by the U.S. government, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to unlock its iPhones in connection with investigations in criminal cases. The products that Jobs and Apple built were focused on the power and creativity of the individual mind and as a result were extensions, often literally—in the form of phones, wristwatches, personal computers, and the mouse—of the self.</p>
			<p class="para-p">For Apple in the early 1980s, the personal computer presented a challenge to, not an embrace of, the authority of government and the state. The company’s iconic “1984” advertising campaign featured a dystopia of conformity, filled with hundreds of gray souls mindlessly listening to the directives of an Orwellian overlord speaking to the assembled flock on a large screen. A woman, dressed in bright tangerine running shorts, sprints through the crowd and throws a sledgehammer at the screen, smashing it and, for the viewer, suggesting the liberation of the masses. The television ad, directed by Ridley Scott, pitted the emancipatory potential of the Macintosh computer against the then reigning IBM, which had produced the gigantic mainframe computers of an earlier generation that often literally filled entire rooms.</p>
			<p class="para-p"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_102" role="doc-pagebreak" title="102"/>Those mainframes, hulking and immovable, would only, Apple implicitly argued, hasten our enslavement by the state. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText256"/>The Macintosh, by contrast, weighed seventeen pounds and had a handle on the top, so that it could literally be picked up and carried short distances by a single person. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText257"/>An initial draft of the advertisement warned ominously that “there are monster computers lurking in big business and big government that know everything from what motels you’ve stayed at to how much money you have in the bank.” The message was clear: the new personal computer of the era would provide a counterweight to the institutional power of government and industry, not advance their interests at the expense of the individual.</p>
			<p class="para-p">Our point is only that the rush of attention and funding dedicated to the concerns and needs of the modern American, and later global, consumer was anything but inevitable. It was the product of a set of proclivities and instincts of those early founders, as well as the social and cultural milieu in which they came of age. They had ambition, no doubt. But much of their focus was on the individual, his and her concerns and needs. And it was a near-obsessive focus on those concerns and needs—and the sheer brilliance of the contraptions and software products constructed to address them—that paved the way for another generation of founders, in the first part of this century, who would create the consumer internet. The era of online advertising, photo-sharing apps, and food delivery empires was near. This next generation of innovators would go even further than the prior, abandoning even the pretext of claims to a broader political project, to the liberating potential of technology. They instead entered into a far more mercenary and straightforward service of the material culture of the time.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>