<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter Three: The Winner’s Fallacy, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding">
			<p class="ch-orn"><span class="char-ccust4">•</span></p>
			<h2 class="para-cn-chap-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_29" role="doc-pagebreak" title="29"/>Chapter Three</h2>
			<h2 class="para-ct"><span class="char-ccust50">The Winner’s Fallacy</span></h2>
			<p class="para-pf dropcaps2line char-dropcap-DC" style="text-indent:0;">A<span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps"> passage from the Talmud recounts </span></span>an exchange with a teacher named Rabha who lived in the fourth century in a small town in Babylon, located in present-day Iraq not far south from Baghdad. He considers whether it is permissible to kill a burglar who breaks into one’s home. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText69"/>Rabha makes clear that “if one comes to kill you, hasten to kill him first.”</p>
			<p class="para-p">Several generations in the United States have now never known a war between the world’s great powers. Indeed, since the end of World War II, billions and billions of people have never experienced the horror of a significant military conflict. The preoccupations of late capitalism have had the luxury of drifting to other matters. But a reluctance to grapple with the often grim reality of an ongoing geopolitical struggle for power poses its own danger. Our adversaries will not pause to indulge in theatrical debates about the merits of developing technologies with critical military and national security applications. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText70"/>They will proceed.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The National Institute of Standards and Technology, a division of the U.S. Department of Commerce based in Gaithersburg, Maryland, conducts regular tests of dozens of facial recognition algorithms from companies around the world. The most effective systems are subjected to what are known as twin studies, in which the algorithms are presented with photographs of identical twins in order to <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_30" role="doc-pagebreak" title="30"/>determine whether the programs can reliably distinguish between the subtle variations in the faces of the siblings, which can often escape the notice of humans. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText71"/>As of 2024, three of the top six facial recognition companies in the world were based in China, including CloudWalk Technology in Guangzhou, whose shares are traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText72"/>In December 2021, the U.S. Treasury Department publicly accused CloudWalk of providing its software to the Chinese government to “track and surveil members of ethnic minority groups, including Tibetans and Uyghurs.” <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText73"/>Two of the other companies with the most effective facial recognition systems in the world were built by entities located in the United Arab Emirates.</p>
			<p class="para-p"><span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText74"/>In 2022, a research group at Zhejiang University, in Hangzhou, China, successfully developed a swarm of small, flying drones that were capable of coordinating among one another as they tracked an object moving through a dense bamboo forest. The group of drones, the team wrote in a study published in the journal <i class="char-i">Science Robotics</i>, was “similar to birds capable of flying freely through the forest.” <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText75"/>A graduate student at École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, in Switzerland, who was not involved in the work that produced the paper, said in an interview that the work of the group in Hangzhou represented the first ever instance of “a swarm of drones successfully flying outside an unstructured environment, in the wild.” The research team did not mention any potential military applications of their work. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText76"/>Yet the following year, in October 2023, a division of the U.S. Air Force concluded that the Chinese military had been actively pursuing research into the development of drone swarms “for dealing with dynamic scenarios in large-scale combat” and that many of the country’s most recent patent filings concerned technology with implications for conflicts in “urban environments.”</p>
			<p class="para-p">Our geopolitical adversaries are ruled by individuals who are often closer to founders, in the sense Silicon Valley uses the term, <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_31" role="doc-pagebreak" title="31"/>than traditional politicians. Their fates and personal fortunes are so deeply intertwined with those of the nations whose authoritarian regimes they oversee that they behave as owners, in that they have a direct stake in the future of their countries. And as a result, they can be far more alert and sensitive to the needs and demands of their public, even if they ruthlessly and viciously ignore them. In business and in politics, we are all, always, negotiating against the threat of revolt.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The leading nations of the world are now engaged in a new kind of arms race. Our hesitation, perceived or otherwise, to move forward with military applications of artificial intelligence will be punished. The ability to develop the tools required to deploy force against an opponent, combined with a credible threat to use such force, is often the foundation of any effective negotiation with an adversary. The underlying cause of our cultural hesitation to openly pursue technical superiority may be our collective sense that we have already won. But the certainty with which many believed that history had come to an end, and that Western liberal democracy had emerged in permanent victory after the struggles of the twentieth century, is as dangerous as it is pervasive.</p>
			<p class="para-p">In 1989, Francis Fukuyama published an essay, later expanded into his book <i class="char-i">The End of History</i>, that articulated a worldview that would shape elite thinking about great power competition for decades. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText77"/>He declared months before the fall of the Berlin Wall that we had reached “the end-point of mankind’s ideological evolution” and that liberal democracy represented “the final form of human government.” <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText78"/>Fukuyama’s claim was a tantalizing suggestion that “the monotony of the meaningless rise and fall of great powers,” in the words of Allan Bloom, was but an illusion and that history indeed had an underlying direction, however meandering, of movement. We must not, however, grow complacent. The ability of free and democratic societies to prevail requires something more than moral appeal. It <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_32" role="doc-pagebreak" title="32"/>requires hard power, and hard power in this century will be built on software.<a class="char-fnref footnote_ref" epub:type="noteref" href="Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c003_r1.xhtml#_footnote_d1-00015e81" id="_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e81" role="doc-noteref" title="footnote">[*]</a></p>
			<p class="para-p">Thomas Schelling, who taught economics at Yale and later Harvard, understood the relationship between technical advances in the development of weaponry and the ability of such weaponry to shape political outcomes. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText80"/>To be coercive, violence has to be anticipated,” he wrote in the 1960s as the United States grappled with its military escalation in Vietnam. “The power to hurt is bargaining power. To exploit it is diplomacy—vicious diplomacy, but diplomacy.” The virtue of Schelling’s version of realism was its unsentimental disentanglement of the moral from the strategic. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText81"/>As he made clear, “War is always a bargaining process.”</p>
			<p class="para-p">Before one engages with the justice or injustice of a policy, it is necessary to understand one’s leverage or lack thereof in a negotiation, armed or otherwise. The contemporary approach to international affairs too often assumes, either explicitly or implicitly, that the correctness of one’s views from a moral or ethical perspective precludes the need to engage with the more distasteful and fundamental question of relative power with respect to a geopolitical opponent, and specifically which party has a superior ability to inflict harm on the other. The wishfulness of the current moment and many of its political leaders may in the end be their undoing.</p>
			<p class="para-p">While other countries press forward, many Silicon Valley engineers remain opposed to working on software projects that may have offensive military applications, including machine learning systems that make possible the more systematic targeting and elimination of enemies on the battlefield. These engineers will, without hesitation, dedicate their working lives to building algorithms that optimize the placement of ads on social media platforms. But they will not <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_33" role="doc-pagebreak" title="33"/>build software for the U.S. Marines. In 2019, for example, Microsoft faced internal opposition to accepting a defense contract with the U.S. Army. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText82"/>The company had been selected to provide virtual headsets to soldiers for use in planning missions and for training. A group of employees at Microsoft, however, objected, writing an open letter to Satya Nadella, the company’s chief executive officer, and Brad Smith, its president. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText83"/>We did not sign up to develop weapons,” they argued.</p>
			<p class="para-p">A year earlier, in April 2018, an employee protest at Google preceded the company’s decision not to renew a contract for work with the U.S. Department of Defense on an effort known as Project Maven, a critical system designed to assist with the analysis of satellite and other reconnaissance imagery for planning and executing special forces operations around the world. “<span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText84"/>Building this technology to assist the U.S. government in military surveillance—and potentially lethal outcomes—is not acceptable,” Google employees wrote in a letter, which received more than three thousand signatures, to Sundar Pichai, the company’s chief executive officer. At the time, Google issued a statement attempting to defend its involvement in the project on the grounds that the company’s work was merely “for non-offensive purposes.” It was a subtle and lawyerly distinction to attempt, particularly from the perspective of American soldiers and intelligence analysts on the front lines who needed better software systems to do their jobs and stay alive. Within less than two months, however, Google announced that it would pause its work on the government project. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText85"/>Diane Greene, who ran Google’s cloud business, told employees that the company had decided against pursuing further work on the effort with the U.S. military “because the backlash has been terrible,” according to a report at the time. The employees had spoken. And the company’s leadership had listened. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText86"/>An article in <i class="char-i">Jacobin</i> days later declared “victory against US militarism,” noting that employees at Google had successfully risen up against what they believed was a misdirection of their talents.</p>
			<p class="para-p"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_34" role="doc-pagebreak" title="34"/>We have seen firsthand the reluctance of young engineers to build the digital equivalent of weapons systems. For some of them, the order of society and the relative safety and comfort in which they live are the inevitable consequence of the justice of the American project, not the result of a concerted and intricate effort to defend a nation and its interests. Such safety and comfort were not fought for or won. For many, the security that we enjoy is a background fact or feature of existence so foundational that it merits no explanation. These engineers inhabit a world without trade-offs, ideological or economic. Their views, however, and those of a generation of others like them in Silicon Valley have meaningfully drifted from the center of gravity of American public opinion. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText87"/>It is striking that while public trust in institutions has varied over the decades, and fallen precipitously for some—including for newspapers, public schools, and Congress—Americans consistently report that the U.S. military remains among the most trusted institutions in the country. The instincts of the public should not so easily be cast aside. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText88"/>When William F. Buckley Jr. told an interviewer at <i class="char-i">Esquire</i> in 1961 that he “would rather be governed by the first 2,000 people in the telephone directory” than by “the Harvard University faculty,” there was a playfulness and a degree of irony in his jab at the establishment. But there was wisdom and something adjacent to humility in his reminder as well.</p>
			<p class="para-p">The wunderkinder of Silicon Valley—their fortunes, business empires, and, more fundamentally, entire sense of self—exist because of the nation that in many cases made their rise possible. They charge themselves with constructing vast technical empires but decline to offer support to the state whose protections—not to mention educational institutions and capital markets—have provided the necessary conditions for their ascent. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText89"/>They would do well to understand that debt, even if it remains unpaid.</p>
			<p class="para-p">Our experiment in the West with self-government is fragile. We are not advocating for a thin and shallow patriotism—a substitute <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_35" role="doc-pagebreak" title="35"/>for thought and genuine reflection about the merits of our national project as well as its flaws. The United States is far from perfect. But it is easy to forget how much more opportunity exists in this country for those who are not hereditary elites than in any other nation on the planet. It is true that we should hold ourselves and our experiment to a higher standard than that of other nations, but it is also worth remembering how high a standard this country has already set. A more intimate collaboration between the state and the technology sector, and a closer alignment of vision between the two, will be required if the United States and its allies are to maintain an advantage that will constrain our adversaries over the long term. The preconditions for a durable peace often come only from a credible threat of war.</p>
			<hr class="transition"/>
			<div aria-hidden="true" class="para-orn">• • •</div>
			<p class="para-paft">In the summer of 1939, from a cottage on the North Fork of Long Island, Albert Einstein sent a letter—which he had worked on with Leo Szilard and others—to President Franklin Roosevelt, urging him to explore building a nuclear weapon, and quickly. Einstein and Roosevelt had known each other since Einstein’s arrival in the United States from Germany in the early 1930s. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText90"/>There was a degree of closeness in their relationship. Roosevelt, who first attended school as a child in Bad Nauheim, north of Frankfurt, and was nearly fluent in German, had read Hitler’s <i class="char-i">Mein Kampf</i>. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText91"/>Einstein and his wife had previously spent the night in the White House at the president’s invitation. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText92"/>The rapid technical advances in the development of a potential atomic weapon, Einstein and Szilard wrote in their letter, “seem to call for watchfulness and, if necessary, quick action on the part of the administration,” as well as a sustained partnership founded on “permanent contact maintained between the administration” and physicists. <span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText93"/>That permanent contact resulted in one of the most significant scientific breakthroughs of the twentieth century <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_36" role="doc-pagebreak" title="36"/>and gave the United States and its allies a decisive advantage in a struggle whose outcome reshaped the world. It was the raw power and strategic potential of the bomb that prompted the call to action then. It is the far less visible but equally significant capabilities of these newest artificial intelligence technologies that should prompt swift action now.</p>
		</div>
		<div class="footnotes" epub:type="footnotes" id="d1-d2s8d3s4_footnotes">
			<p class="footnote_skip"><a href="Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c004_r1.xhtml">Skip Notes</a></p>
			<div class="footnote" epub:type="footnote" id="_footnote_d1-00015e81" role="doc-footnote">
				<p class="para-fn footnote"><span class="footnoteNum"><a class="footnote" href="Karp_9780593798706_epub3_c003_r1.xhtml#_footnote_referrer_d1-00015e81" role="doc-backlink" title="footnote reference">*</a> </span><span id="Y_d1-EndnotePhraseInText79"/>Our point is that such moral appeal is necessary but not sufficient to wield power in the world. As Joseph S. Nye Jr. has observed, to “deny the importance of soft power” is to fail to “understand the power of seduction.”</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>