<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>About the Authors, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding">
			<p class="ch-orn"><span class="char-ccust4">•</span></p>
			<h1 class="para-atat-ata-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_297" role="doc-pagebreak" title="297"/>About the Authors</h1>
			<p class="para-ataf"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">Alexander Caedmon Karp</span></span> is co-founder and chief executive officer of Palantir Technologies Inc. The company, which was established in Palo Alto, California, in 2003, builds software platforms and artificial intelligence capabilities that are used by defense and intelligence agencies in the United States and allied nations around the world, as well as companies across the commercial sector. Dr. Karp is a graduate of Haverford College and Stanford Law School. He earned his doctorate in social theory from Goethe University in Frankfurt, Germany.</p>
			<p class="para-ataf"><span class="char-first"><span class="fv-allsmallcaps">Nicholas William Zamiska</span></span> is head of corporate affairs and legal counsel to the office of the chief executive officer at Palantir Technologies Inc. He also serves on the board of directors of the Palantir Foundation for Defense Policy &amp; International Affairs. Mr. Zamiska received his J.D. from Yale Law School and is a graduate of Yale College. He was born in New York City.</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>