<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Bibliography, The Technological Republic</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../css/prh_resets.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/rh_static.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/9780593798706_style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:7ba15b27-c219-4060-9438-7f6b39cd88f1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
	</head>
	<body lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="page_top_padding" role="doc-bibliography">
			<p class="ch-orn"><span class="char-ccust4">•</span></p>
			<h1 class="para-bmt-bib-pg"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_261" role="doc-pagebreak" title="261"/><span class="char-ccust50">Bibliography</span></h1>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">ABC News</i>. “Absence of America’s Upper Classes from the Military.” August 3, 2006.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ackerman, Kenneth D. “Five Myths About J. Edgar Hoover.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, November 9, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Adams, Henry. <i class="char-i">Tom and Jack: The Intertwined Lives of Thomas Hart Benton and Jackson Pollock</i>. New York: Bloomsbury Press, 2009.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Adekoya, Remi. “The Oppressed vs. Oppressor Mistake.” Institute of Art and Ideas, October 17, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Alexander, Leigh. “Why It’s Time to Retire ‘Disruption,’ Silicon Valley’s Emptiest Buzzword.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, January 11, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Allardyce, Gilbert. “The Rise and Fall of the Western Civilization Course.” <i class="char-i">American Historical Review</i> 87, no. 3 (June 1982): 695–725.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Allen, Thomas B., and Norman Polmar. <i class="char-i">Rickover: Father of the Nuclear Navy</i>. Washington, D.C.: Potomac Books, 2007.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Allyn, Bobby. “IBM Abandons Facial Recognition Products, Condemns Racially Biased Surveillance.” NPR, June 9, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Amar, Akhil Reed. <i class="char-i">America’s Constitution: A Biography</i>. New York: Random House, 2005.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">American Experience: The Presidents</i>. “Nixon, Part One: The Quest.” PBS, October 15, 1990.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">American Experience: Silicon Valley</i>. “Silicon Valley: Chapter 1.” Directed by Randall MacLowry. PBS, February 5, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ames, Roger T. and Henry Rosemont Jr. <i class="char-i">The Analects of Confucius: A Philosophical Translation</i>. New York: Ballantine Books, 1998.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Anders, George and Ann Grimes. “eToys’ Shares Nearly Quadruple, Outstripping Rival Toys ‘R’ Us.” <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i>, May 21, 1999.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Andersen, Ross. “The Panopticon Is Already Here.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, September 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Anderson, Benedict. <i class="char-i">Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism</i>. Rev. ed. London: Verso, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_262" role="doc-pagebreak" title="262"/>Appiah, Kwame Anthony. “There Is No Such Thing as Western Civilisation.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, November 9, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Applebaum, Anne. “There Is No Liberal World Order.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, March 31, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Arendt, Hannah. <i class="char-i">Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil</i>. New York: Viking Press, 1963.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Armitage, David et al. <i class="char-i">The Teaching of the Arts and Humanities at Harvard College: Mapping the Future</i>. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Army Technology.</i> “Oshkosh MRAP All Terrain Vehicle.” September 14, 2009.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Asch, Solomon E. “Effects of Group Pressure upon the Modification and Distortion of Judgments.” In <i class="char-i">Groups, Leadership, and Men: Research in Human Relations</i>, edited by Harold Guetzko. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Press, 1951.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Opinions and Social Pressure.” <i class="char-i">Scientific American</i> 193, no. 5 (November 1955): 3, 31–35.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>. “The Reminiscences of Ernest Renan.” August 1883.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Auping, Michael. “Lucian Freud: The Last Interview.” <i class="char-i">Times</i> (London), January 28, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">The Babylonian Talmud. Translated by Michael L. Rodkinson. Boston: Talmud Society, 1918.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bai, Matt. <i class="char-i">All the Truth Is Out: The Week Politics Went Tabloid</i>. New York: Vintage, 2014.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Baldwin, John, et al. “Memoirs of Fellows and Corresponding Fellows of the Medieval Academy of America.” <i class="char-i">Speculum</i> 91, no. 3 (July 2016): 889–907.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Baltzell, E. Digby. <i class="char-i">The Protestant Establishment: Aristocracy and Caste in America</i>. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1987.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Barnett, Lincoln. “J. Robert Oppenheimer.” <i class="char-i">Life</i>, October 10, 1949.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Barr, Alistair. “Google’s ‘Don’t Be Evil’ Becomes Alphabet’s ‘Do the Right Thing.’ ” <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i>, October 2, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Barr, Stephen. “Clinton Proposes Procurement Changes.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, October 27, 1993.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Barton, Aden. “How Harvard Careerism Killed the Classroom.” <i class="char-i">Harvard Crimson</i>, April 21, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bass, Paul, and Douglas W. Rae. <i class="char-i">Murder in the Model City: The Black Panthers, Yale, and the Redemption of a Killer</i>. New York: Basic Books, 2006.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bastié, Eugénie. “Emmanuel Macron, de la négation de la culture française à l’exaltation de la France éternelle.” <i class="char-i">Le Figaro</i>, June 5, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Beard, Mary. “Kenneth Clark by James Stourton Review—Mary Beard on Civilisation Without Women.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, October 1, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bearden, Milton. “Afghanistan, Graveyard of Empires.” <i class="char-i">Foreign Affairs</i>, November 1, 2001.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_263" role="doc-pagebreak" title="263"/>Bellah, Robert. “Civil Religion in America.” <i class="char-i">Daedalus</i> 96, no. 1 (Winter 1967).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bender, Emily M., et al. “On the Dangers of Stochastic Parrots: Can Language Models Be Too Big?” <i class="char-i">Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency</i> (2021): 610–23.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Benedict, Ruth. <i class="char-i">Patterns of Culture</i>. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1934.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Benton, Thomas Hart. <i class="char-i">An Artist in America</i>. Columbia, Mo.: University of Missouri Press, 1968.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bergman, Ronen. <i class="char-i">Rise and Kill First: The Secret History of Israel’s Targeted Assassinations</i>. New York: Random House, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Berlin, Isaiah. <i class="char-i">The Hedgehog and the Fox</i>. London: Weidenfeld &amp; Nicolson, 1954.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Berman, Morris. <i class="char-i">The Twilight of American Culture</i>. New York: W. W. Norton, 2006.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bernstein, Jeremy. “Oppenheimer’s Beginnings.” <i class="char-i">New England Review</i> 25, no. ½ (Winter/Spring 2004): 38–51.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Biddle, Wayne. “General Dynamics Draws Penalties on Navy Dealings.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, May 22, 1985.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “House Approves Stiff Rules to Control Cost of Military Spare Parts.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, May 31, 1984.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Navy Lists General Dynamics’ Gifts to Rickover.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, June 5, 1985.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Rickover Tells Lehman He Gave Away Gifts.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, June 11, 1985.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bilger, Burkhard. “Piecing Together the Secrets of the Stasi.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, May 27, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bird, Kai, and Martin J. Sherwin. <i class="char-i">American Prometheus: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer</i>. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2005.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Black, C. B. <i class="char-i">Paris and Excursions from Paris</i>. London: Sampson Low, Marston, Low &amp; Searle, 1873.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Blackstone, William. <i class="char-i">Commentaries on the Laws of England in Four Books</i>, Vol. 2. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott, 1893.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Blass, Thomas. <i class="char-i">The Man Who Shocked the World: The Life and Legacy of Stanley Milgram</i>. New York: Basic Books, 2009.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Blium, Arlen Viktorovich, and Donna M. Farina. “Forbidden Topics: Early Soviet Censorship Directives.” <i class="char-i">Book History 1</i> (1998): 268–82.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bloom, Allan. <i class="char-i">The Closing of the American Mind</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 1987.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Responses to Fukuyama.” <i class="char-i">National Interest</i>, no. 16 (Summer 1989): 19–35.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brand, Stewart. “We Owe It All to the Hippies.” <i class="char-i">Time</i>, March 1, 1995.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_264" role="doc-pagebreak" title="264"/>Breidlid, Anders, Fredrik Chr. Brøgger, Oyvind T. Gulliksen, and Torbjorn Sirevag. <i class="char-i">American Culture: An Anthology</i>. 2nd ed. New York: Routledge, 2008.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bremmer, Ian, and Mustafa Suleyman. “The AI Power Paradox: Can States Learn to Govern Artificial Intelligence—Before It’s Too Late?” <i class="char-i">Foreign Affairs</i>, August 16, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brennan, Timothy. <i class="char-i">Places of Mind: A Life of Edward Said</i>. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2021.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brill, Steven. <i class="char-i">The Death of Truth: How Social Media and the Internet Gave Snake Oil Salesmen and Demagogues the Weapons They Needed to Destroy Trust and Polarize the World—and What We Can Do</i>. New York: Knopf, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Trump, Palantir, and the Battle to Clean Up a Huge Army Procurement Swamp.” <i class="char-i">Fortune</i>, March 27, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brock, Claire. “The Public Worth of Mary Somerville.” <i class="char-i">British Journal for the History of Science</i> 39, no. 2 (June 2006): 255–72.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brodie, Janet Farrell. <i class="char-i">The First Atomic Bomb: The Trinity Site in New Mexico</i>. Lincoln, Neb.: University of Nebraska Press, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brooks, David. “The Sins of the Educated Class.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, June 6, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brown, Susan. “Soldier’s Dad: ‘He’ll Always Be My Hero.’ ” <i class="char-i">Times of Northwest Indiana</i>, October 2, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bruckner, Pascal. <i class="char-i">The Tears of the White Man: Compassion as Contempt</i>. Translated by William R. Beer. New York: Free Press, 1986.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brudnick, Ida A. “Congressional Salaries and Allowances: In Brief.” Congressional Research Service, June 27, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Brustein, Joshua. “Microsoft Wins $480 Million Army Battlefield Contract.” <i class="char-i">Bloomberg</i>, November 28, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bryant, F. Carlene. <i class="char-i">We’re All Kin: A Cultural Study of a Mountain Neighborhood</i>. Knoxville, Tenn.: University of Tennessee Press, 1981.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bubeck, Sébastien, et al. “Sparks of Artificial General Intelligence: Early Experiments with GPT-4.” ArXiv, March 22, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Buckley, Chris, and Didi Kirsten Tatlow. “Cultural Revolution Shaped Xi Jinping, from Schoolboy to Survivor.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, September 24, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Burke, Kenneth. <i class="char-i">Permanence and Change</i>. University of California Press, 1935.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Burnham, David. “The Computer, the Consumer, and Privacy.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, March 4, 1984.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Burns, Ken, Lynn Novick, and Sarah Botstein. <i class="char-i">The U.S. and the Holocaust</i>. PBS, September 18, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Bush, Vannevar. “As We May Think.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic Monthly</i>, July 1945.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">Modern Arms and Free Men</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 1949.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_265" role="doc-pagebreak" title="265"/>———. <i class="char-i">Science: The Endless Frontier—A Report to the President</i>. Washington, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office, 1945.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Butler, Jack. “Does the Left Really Want to Argue That Enjoying <i class="char-i">Lord of the Rings</i> Is ‘Far-Right’?” <i class="char-i">National Review</i>, July 19, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Byrne, John. “Northwest Indiana Medic Killed in Afghanistan.” <i class="char-i">Chicago Tribune</i>, October 1, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Caddell, Patrick. Interviewed in <i class="char-i">American Experience: The Presidents</i>. PBS, November 11, 2002.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Carlyle, Thomas. <i class="char-i">On Heroes: Hero-Worship, and the Heroic in History</i>. London: James Fraser, 1841.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Carroll, Eugene J., Jr. “NATO Enlargement: To What End?” In <i class="char-i">NATO Enlargement: Illusions and Reality</i>, edited by Ted Galen Carpenter and Barbara Conry. Washington, D.C.: Cato Institute, 1998.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Carter, Stephen L. <i class="char-i">The Culture of Disbelief</i>. New York: Basic Books, 1993.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Cassy, John. “eToys Files for Bankruptcy.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, February 28, 2001.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ceraso, John, Irvin Rock, and Howard Gruber. “On Solomon Asch.” In <i class="char-i">The Legacy of Solomon Asch</i>. Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1990.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Channick, Robert. “Groupon Issues ‘Going Concern’ Warning as Chicago-Based Online Marketplace Terminates River North HQ Lease.” <i class="char-i">Chicago Tribune</i>, May 12, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Chapman, Lizette. “Inside Palantir’s War with the U.S. Army.” <i class="char-i">Bloomberg</i>, October 28, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Chauncey, Sam, Jr. Letter to the Editor. <i class="char-i">Yale Daily News</i>, November 29, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Cheyette, Fredric L. “Beyond Western Civilization: Rebuilding the Survey.” <i class="char-i">History Teacher</i> 10, no. 4 (August 1977): 535–38.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">Ermengard of Narbonne and the World of the Troubadours</i>. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 2004.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Chicago Tribune</i>. “Bermingham, Once Chicago Banker, Dies.” July 14, 1958.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Child, Ben. “Mark Zuckerberg Rejects His Portrayal in The Social Network.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, October 20, 2010.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">China Daily.</i> “President Xi’s Speech on China-US Ties.” September 24, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Chomsky, Noam, Ian Roberts, and Jeffrey Watumull. “The False Promise of ChatGPT.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, March 8, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Christian, Brian. “How a Google Employee Fell for the Eliza Effect.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, June 21, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Clark, Kenneth. <i class="char-i">Civilisation</i>. New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1969.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Clinton, William J. “Remarks Announcing Federal Procurement Reforms and Spending Cut Proposals.” Washington, D.C., October 26, 1993.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_266" role="doc-pagebreak" title="266"/>———. “Remarks Announcing the Report of the National Performance Review and an Exchange with Reporters.” Washington, D.C., September 7, 1993.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Remarks on Signing the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994.” Washington, D.C., October 13, 1994.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. State of the Union Address. Washington, D.C., January 23, 1996.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Coffey, John W. “State of Higher Education: Chaos.” <i class="char-i">Stanford Daily</i>, November 29, 1971.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Commentary</i>.<i class="char-i"> </i>“The Study of Man: On Talcott Parsons.” 1962.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Condliffe, Jamie. “Amazon Is Latest Tech Giant to Face Staff Backlash over Government Work.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, June 22, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Conger, Kate. “Google Plans Not to Renew Its Contract for Project Maven, a Controversial Pentagon Drone AI Imaging Program.” <i class="char-i">Gizmodo</i>, June 1, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Corcoran, Elizabeth. “Squaring Off in a Game of Checkers.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>,<i class="char-i"> </i>August 14, 1994.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Cristancho, Sayra, and Graham Thompson. “Building Resilient Healthcare Teams: Insights from Analogy to the Social Biology of Ants, Honey Bees, and Other Social Insects.” <i class="char-i">Perspectives on Medical Education</i> 12, no. 1 (2023).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Curie, Eve. <i class="char-i">Madame Curie</i>. Translated by Vincent Sheean. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Doran, 1937.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Daub, Adrian. “The Disruption Con: Why Big Tech’s Favourite Buzzword Is Nonsense.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, September 24, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Demick, Barbara, and David Pierson. “China Political Star Xi Jinping a Study in Contrasts.” <i class="char-i">Los Angeles Times</i>, February 11, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Dewey, John. “Pragmatic America.” In <i class="char-i">America’s Public Philosopher: Essays on Social Justice, Economics, Education, and the Future of Democracy</i>, edited by Eric Thomas Weber. New York: Columbia University Press, 2021.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Die Welt</i>. “Dieter Hildebrandt soll in NSDAP gewesen sein.” June 30, 2007.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Doss, Erika. <i class="char-i">Benton, Pollock, and the Politics of Modernism</i>. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1995.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Doward, Jamie. “A Gift-Horse in the Mouse.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, October 23, 1999.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Dowd, Maureen. “The Ivy League Flunks Out.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, December 9, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Draper, Robert. “Boondoggle Goes Boom.” <i class="char-i">New Republic</i>, June 19, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Drucker, Peter F. “The Coming of the New Organization.” <i class="char-i">Harvard Business Review</i>, January 1988.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Dudeck, Theresa Robbins. <i class="char-i">Keith Johnstone: A Critical Biography</i>. London: Bloomsbury, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_267" role="doc-pagebreak" title="267"/>Duffy, Michael. “Hyman George Rickover, 1900–1986: They Broke the Mold.” <i class="char-i">Time</i>, July 21, 1986.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Dugatkin, Lee Alan. “Buffon, Jefferson, and the Theory of New World Degeneracy.” <i class="char-i">Evolution: Education and Outreach</i> 12 (2019).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Dunbar, Robin. “Co-evolution of Neocortex Size, Group Size, and Language in Humans.” <i class="char-i">Behavioral and Brain Sciences</i> 16, no. 4 (1993).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Eagleton Institute of Politics. <i class="char-i">Scientists in State Politics</i>. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University, 2023. eagleton.rutgers.edu/​scientists-in-state-politics.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Economist</i>. “Europe Faces a Painful Adjustment to Higher Defence Spending.” February 22, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Einstein, Albert. Letter from Albert Einstein to Franklin D. Roosevelt, Peconic, N.Y., August 2, 1939. Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library and Museum, Hyde Park, N.Y.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Eisenhower, Dwight D. Letter from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Edward J. Bermingham, February 28, 1951. Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library, Abilene, Kans.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Emerson, Ralph Waldo. “Self-Reliance.” In <i class="char-i">Nature and Selected Essays</i>, edited by Larzer Ziff. Penguin Books, 2003.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Eschner, Kat. “Computers Are Great at Chess, But That Doesn’t Mean the Game Is ‘Solved.’ ” <i class="char-i">Smithsonian Magazine</i>, February 10, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Eshel, Amir. “Jewish Memories, German Futures: Recent Debates in Germany About the Past.” Robert A. and Sandra Borns Jewish Studies Program, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind., 2001.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Fahlenbrach, Rüdiger. “Founder-CEOs, Investment Decisions, and Stock Market Performance.” <i class="char-i">Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis</i> 44, no. 2 (April 2009): 439–66.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Fairhall, James. “The Case for the $435 Hammer.” <i class="char-i">Washington Monthly</i>, January 1, 1987.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Fandos, Nicholas. “In an Online World, a New Generation of Protesters Chooses Anonymity.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, May 2, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Fano, Robert M. “Joseph Carl Robnett Licklider.” In <i class="char-i">Biographical Memoirs</i>, Vol. 3. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, 1998.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Farooq, Umar. “Pakistani Fertilizer Grows Both Taliban Bombs and Afghan Crops.” <i class="char-i">Christian Science Monitor</i>, May 9, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ferguson, Niall. <i class="char-i">Civilization: The West and the Rest</i>. New York: Penguin Books, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Filipovic, Jill. “I Was Wrong About Trigger Warnings.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, August 9, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_268" role="doc-pagebreak" title="268"/>Finney, John W. “Rickover, Father of Nuclear Navy, Dies at 86.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, July 9, 1986.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Frank, Richard B. <i class="char-i">Tower of Skulls: A History of the Asia-Pacific War: July 1937–May 1942</i>. New York: W. W. Norton, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Franke-Ruta, Garance. “Paul Harvey’s 1978 ‘So God Made a Farmer’ Speech.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, February 3, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Frankfurter Allgemeine.</i> “Geistige Brandstiftung. Bubis wendet sich gegen Walser.” October 13, 1998.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Freedman, Danny. “They’re Getting Rid of ‘Red Tape’ in Washington. Literally.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, January 16, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Freire, Paulo. <i class="char-i">Pedagogy of the Oppressed</i>. Translated by Myra Bergman Ramos. Penguin Books, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Freud, Sigmund. “Obsessive Actions and Religious Practices.” In <i class="char-i">Readings in Ritual Studies</i>, edited by Ronald L. Grimes. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1996.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Frisch, Karl von. <i class="char-i">The Dance Language and Orientation of Bees</i>. Translated by Leigh E. Chadwick. Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1967.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Fry, Jason. “eToys Story.” <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i>, July 12, 1999.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Frye, Northrop. “The Decline of the West by Oswald Spengler.” <i class="char-i">Daedalus</i> 103, no. 1 (Winter 1974): 1–13.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Fukuyama, Francis. “The End of History?” <i class="char-i">National Interest</i>, no. 16 (Summer 1989).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Waltzing with (Leo) Strauss.” <i class="char-i">American Interest</i> 10, no. 4 (February 2015).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Future of Life Institute. “Pause Giant AI Experiments: An Open Letter.” March 22, 2023. <a class="char-url" href="http://futureoflife.org/open-letter/pause-giant-ai-experiments/">futureoflife.org/​open-letter/​pause-giant-ai-experiments/</a>.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gaddis, John Lewis. <i class="char-i">The Long Peace: Inquiries into the History of the Cold War</i>. New York: Oxford University Press, 1987.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">On Grand Strategy</i>. Penguin Books, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gallup. “Confidence in Institutions.” <a class="char-url" href="http://news.gallup.com/poll/1597/confidence-institutions.aspx">news.gallup.com/​poll/​1597/​confidence-institutions.aspx</a>.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Galton, Francis. “Vox Populi.” <i class="char-i">Nature</i> 75, no. 1949 (March 1907): 450–51.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gayford, Martin. <i class="char-i">Man with a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud</i>. London: Thames &amp; Hudson, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Girard, René. “Generative Scapegoating.” In <i class="char-i">Violent Origins: Walter Burket, René Girard, and Jonathan Z. Smith on Ritual Killing and Cultural Formation</i>, edited by Robert G. Hammerton-Kelly. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1987.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gladwell, Malcolm. “The Tweaker.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, November 6, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_269" role="doc-pagebreak" title="269"/>Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von. <i class="char-i">Faust</i>. 1808. Translated by Abraham Hayward and A. Bucheim. London: George Bell and Sons, 1892.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Goffman, Erving. <i class="char-i">Asylums: Essays on the Social Situation of Mental Patients and Other Inmates</i>. London: Taylor &amp; Francis, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Goh Keng Swee. <i class="char-i">Report on the Ministry of Education, Singapore</i>. February 10, 1979.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Goldberg, Jeffrey. “The Obama Doctrine.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, April 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Goldfarb, Brent, and David A. Kirsch. <i class="char-i">Bubbles and Crashes: The Boom and Bust of Technological Innovation</i>. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Goldstein, Tom. “Neier Is Quitting Post at A.C.L.U.; He Denies Link to Defense of Nazis.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, April 18, 1978.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Good, Irving John. “Speculations Concerning the First Ultraintelligent Machine.” In <i class="char-i">Advances in Computers</i>, Vol. 6, edited by Franz L. Alt and Morris Rubinoff. New York: Academic Press, 1965.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gopinathan, Saravanan. “Singapore’s Language Policies: Strategies for a Plural Society.” <i class="char-i">Southeast Asian Affairs</i> (1979): 280–95.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gordon, Robert J. “The End of Economic Growth.” <i class="char-i">Prospect</i>, January 21, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gore, Al. <i class="char-i">Common Sense Government: Works Better and Costs Less</i>. National Performance Review (1998).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Remarks at the National Performance Review Press Conference.” October 26, 1993, Washington, D.C., C-SPAN.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Grady, Christine. “Institutional Review Boards: Purpose and Challenges.” <i class="char-i">CHEST </i>148, no. 5 (November 2015): 1148–55.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Graeber, David. “The New Anarchists.” <i class="char-i">New Left Review</i> 13 (January/February 2002).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Of Flying Cars and the Declining Rate of Profit.” <i class="char-i">Baffler</i>, no. 9 (March 2012).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gray, Peter. “The Decline of Play and the Rise of Psychopathology in Children and Adolescents.” <i class="char-i">American Journal of Play</i> 3, no. 4 (2011).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Green, Heather. “The Great Yuletide Shakeout.” <i class="char-i">Businessweek</i>, November 1, 1999.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Greene, Jay. “Amazon Bans Police Use of Its Facial-Recognition Technology for a Year.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, June 10, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Greenspan, Alan. “Remarks by Chairman Alan Greenspan: At the Annual Dinner and Francis Boyer Lecture of the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.” Washington, D.C., December 5, 1996.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gregory I. <i class="char-i">The Life of Our Most Holy Father S. Benedict</i>. Rome: 1895.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Guerrieri, Matthew. <i class="char-i">The First Four Notes: Beethoven’s Fifth and the Human Imagination</i>. New York: Vintage Books, 2014.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Gutmann, Amy. “Democratic Citizenship.” <i class="char-i">Boston Review</i>, October 1, 1994.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_270" role="doc-pagebreak" title="270"/>Habermas, Jürgen. <i class="char-i">Legitimation Crisis</i>. Translated by Thomas McCarthy. Cambridge, U.K.: Polity Press, 1976.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hall, Andrew B. <i class="char-i">Who Wants to Run? How the Devaluing of Political Office Drives Polarization</i>. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Handler, Edward. “ ‘Nature Itself Is All Arcanum’: The Scientific Outlook of John Adams.” <i class="char-i">Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society</i> 120, no. 3 (June 1976): 216–29.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hanna, Graeme. “ ‘Stop Working with Pentagon’—OpenAI Staff Face Protests.” <i class="char-i">ReadWrite</i>, February 13, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Harris, Gareth. “Mary Beard BBC Segment on Kenneth Clark’s Civilisation Renews Debate About Its Eurocentricity.” <i class="char-i">Art Newspaper</i>, April 29, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Harris, Robin. <i class="char-i">Not for Turning: The Life of Margaret Thatcher</i>. New York: Thomas Dunne Books, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Harris, Shane. “Palantir Wins Competition to Build Army Intelligence System.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, March 26, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hartocollis, Anemona, Stephanie Saul, and Vimal Patel. “At Harvard, a Battle Over What Should Be Said About the Hamas Attacks.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, October 10, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Harwell, Drew. “Amazon Extends Ban on Police Use of Its Facial Recognition Technology Indefinitely.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, May 18, 2021.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hay, Denys. <i class="char-i">Europe: The Emergence of an Idea</i>. 2nd ed. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 1968.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Heinrich, Thomas. “Cold War Armory: Military Contracting in Silicon Valley.” <i class="char-i">Enterprise and Society</i> 3, no. 2 (June 2002): 247–84.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Heller, Ágnes. <i class="char-i">Beyond Justice</i>. Oxford, U.K.: Blackwell, 1987.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Helman, Christopher, and Hank Tucker. “The War in Afghanistan Cost America $300 Million per Day for 20 Years, with Big Bills Yet to Come.” <i class="char-i">Forbes</i>, August 16, 2021.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Henderson, Rob. “ ‘Luxury Beliefs’ Are the Latest Status Symbol for Rich Americans.” <i class="char-i">New York Post</i>, August 17, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">Troubled: A Memoir of Foster Care, Family, and Social Class</i>. New York: Gallery Books, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Henshall, Will. “The U.S. Military’s Investments into Artificial Intelligence Are Skyrocketing,” <i class="char-i">Time</i>, March 29, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Herman, Arthur. <i class="char-i">Freedom’s Forge: How American Business Produced Victory in World War II</i>. New York: Random House, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “What if Apple Designed an iFighter?” <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i>, July 23, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hersey, John. <i class="char-i">Hiroshima</i>. New York: Vintage Books, 1946.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_271" role="doc-pagebreak" title="271"/>Hewlett, Richard G., and Francis Duncan. <i class="char-i">Nuclear Navy, 1946–1962</i>. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1974.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hirsch, E. D., Jr. <i class="char-i">Cultural Literacy: What Every American Needs to Know</i>. New York: Vintage, 1988.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hirsch, Lauren. “One Law Firm Prepared Both Penn and Harvard for Hearing on Antisemitism.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, December 8, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hoffheimer, Michael H. <i class="char-i">Justice Holmes and The Natural Law</i>. New York: Routledge, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hofstadter, Douglas. “Gödel, Escher, Bach, and AI.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, July 8, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Holusha, John. “Taiichi Ohno, Whose Car System Aided Toyota’s Climb, Dies at 78.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, May 31, 1990.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Homer. <i class="char-i">The Odyssey of Homer</i>. Translated by George Herbert Palmer. Cambridge, Mass.: Houghton Mifflin, 1949.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Hoover, Herbert. <i class="char-i">The Memoirs of Herbert Hoover: Years of Adventure, 1874–1920</i>. New York: Macmillan, 1953.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Huet, Ellen. “Protesters Gather Outside OpenAI Headquarters.” <i class="char-i">Bloomberg</i>, February 13, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Huntington, Samuel P. “The Clash of Civilizations?” <i class="char-i">Foreign Affairs</i> 72, no. 3 (1993): 22–49.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Dead Souls: The Denationalization of the American Elite.” <i class="char-i">National Interest</i> (Spring 2004).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Illmer, Andreas. “German Writer Martin Walser Dies Aged 96.” <i class="char-i">Deutsche Welle</i>, July 28, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Impelli, Matthew. “Jerome Powell Salary Admission Sparks Debate.” <i class="char-i">Newsweek</i>, February 7, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Irish Times</i>. “Le Pen Scores Own Goal with Team Slur.” June 25, 1996.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Isaac, Mike, and Erin Griffith. “Open AI Is Growing Fast and Burning Through Piles of Money.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, September 27, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Isaacson, Walter. <i class="char-i">Benjamin Franklin: An American Life</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2003.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">The Innovators: How a Group of Hackers, Geniuses, and Geeks Created the Digital Revolution</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">Steve Jobs</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ismay, John. “ ‘We Hated What We Were Doing’: Veterans Recall Firebombing Japan.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, March 9, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Issa, Darrel and Jason Chaffetz. Letter from Darrel Issa and Jason Chaffetz to Leon E. Panetta, August 1, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Jacobsen, Annie. <i class="char-i">Operation Paperclip: The Secret Intelligence Program That Brought Nazi Scientists to America</i>. New York: Little, Brown, 2014.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_272" role="doc-pagebreak" title="272"/>Jefferson, Thomas. Letter from Thomas Jefferson to Harry Innes, Philadelphia, March 7, 1791. In <i class="char-i">The Papers of Thomas Jefferson</i>, Vol. 19. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1974.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Jégo, Yves. “Emmanuel Macron et le reniement de la culture française.” <i class="char-i">Le Figaro</i>, February 6, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Jensen, Jeff. “Toby Lenk.” <i class="char-i">Advertising Age</i>, June 1, 1998.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Johnson, Ian. “In Singapore, Chinese Dialects Revive After Decades of Restrictions.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, August 26, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Johnstone, Keith. <i class="char-i">Impro: Improvisation and the Theatre</i>. New York: Routledge, 1981.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Junge, Traudl. <i class="char-i">Until the Final Hour: Hitler’s Last Secretary</i>, edited by Melissa Müller and translated by Anthea Bell. New York: Arcade, 2004.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kabaservice, Geoffrey. <i class="char-i">The Guardians: Kingman Brewster, His Circle, and the Rise of the Liberal Establishment</i>. New York: Henry Holt, 2004.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kamenetzky, David A. “The Debate on National Identity and the Martin Walser Speech: How Does Germany Reckon with Its Past?” <i class="char-i">SAIS Review</i> 19, no. 2 (Summer–Fall 1999): 257–66.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Karmel, Pepe, ed. <i class="char-i">Jackson Pollock: Interviews, Articles, and Reviews</i>. New York: Museum of Modern Art, 1999.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Karp, Alexander C. “Our Oppenheimer Moment: The Creation of A.I. Weapons.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, July 25, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Karp, Alexander C., and Nicholas W. Zamiska. “New Weapons Will Eclipse Atomic Bombs. Their Builders Should Ask Themselves This Question.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, June 25, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Silicon Valley Has a Harvard Problem.” <i class="char-i">Time</i>, February 12, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kasparov, Garry. <i class="char-i">Deep Thinking: Where Machine Intelligence Ends and Human Creativity Begins</i>. New York: PublicAffairs, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Keeley, Lawrence H. <i class="char-i">War Before Civilization: The Myth of the Peaceful Savage</i>. New York: Oxford University Press, 1996.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kelleher, Thomas J., Jr., et al. <i class="char-i">Smith, Currie, and Hancock’s Federal Government Construction Contracts</i>. Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley, 2010.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kennedy, Paul. <i class="char-i">The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers: Economic Change and Military Conflict from 1500 to 2000</i>. New York: Random House, 1989.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kerouac, Jack. <i class="char-i">On the Road</i>. New York: Penguin Books, 1976.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kimball, Roger. “Institutionalizing Our Demise: America vs. Multiculturalism.” <i class="char-i">New Criterion</i>, June 2004.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “The Perils of Designer Tribalism.” <i class="char-i">New Criterion</i>, April 2001.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">King, Charles. <i class="char-i">Gods of the Upper Air: How a Circle of Renegade Anthropologists <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_273" role="doc-pagebreak" title="273"/>Reinvented Race, Sex, and Gender in the Twentieth Century</i>. New York: Anchor Books, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kintner, E. E. “Admiral Rickover’s Gamble.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, January 1959.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kissinger, Henry. Foreword to <i class="char-i">From Third World to First: The Singapore Story: 1965–2000</i>, by Lee Kuan Yew. New York: HarperCollins, 2000.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kitchen, Lynn W., David W. Vaughn, and Donald R. Skillman. “Role of U.S. Military Research Programs in the Development of U.S. Food and Drug Administration–Approved Antimalarial Drugs.” <i class="char-i">Clinical Infectious Diseases</i> 43, no. 1 (2006): 67–71.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Klebnikov, Sergei. “U.S. Tech Stocks Are Now Worth More Than $9 Trillion, Eclipsing the Entire European Stock Market.” <i class="char-i">Forbes</i>, December 15, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kovach, Thomas, and Martin Walser. <i class="char-i">The Burden of the Past: Martin Walser on Modern German Identity: Texts, Contexts, Commentary</i>. Rochester, N.Y.: Camden House, 2008.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Krcmaric, Daniel, Stephen C. Nelson, and Andrew Roberts. “Billionaire Politicians: A Global Perspective.” <i class="char-i">Perspectives on Politics</i>, October 25, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kris, Ernst. <i class="char-i">Psychoanalytic Explorations in Art</i>. New York: International Universities Press, 1952.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Kristol, Irving. “Countercultures.” <i class="char-i">Commentary</i>, December 1994.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">LaFrance, Adrienne. “The Rise of Techno-Authoritarianism.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, January 30, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lassiter, Matthew D. “Who Speaks for the Silent Majority?” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, November 2, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lee, Joon Mahn, Jongsoo Kim, and Joonhyung Bae. “Founder CEOs and Innovation: Evidence from S&amp;P 500 Firms.” SSRN, February 17, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lee Kuan Yew. “In His Own Words: Higher Pay Will Attract Most Talented Team, So Country Can Prosper.” <i class="char-i">Straits Times</i>, November 1, 1994.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">Lee Kuan Yew: The Grand Master’s Insights on China, the United States, and the World</i>, edited by Graham Allison and Robert D. Blackwill. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Speech at the National Day Rally.” August 17, 1986, Kallang Theatre, Singapore, Singapore National Archives.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Speech at the Opening of the ‘Speak Mandarin Campaign.’ ” September 21, 1984, Singapore Conference Hall, Singapore National Archives.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Speech at the 28th Anniversary of Liquor Retailers’ Association.” October 3, 1965, Chinese Chamber of Commerce, Singapore, Singapore National Archives.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_274" role="doc-pagebreak" title="274"/>Leith, Suzette. “Civ: Enlightenment…or the Black Death?” <i class="char-i">Stanford Daily</i>, May 17, 1966.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lemoine, Blake. “Explaining Google.” Medium, May 30, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lepore, Jill. “The X-Man.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, September 11, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Leslie, Stuart W. “The Biggest ‘Angel’ of Them All: The Military and the Making of Silicon Valley.” In <i class="char-i">Understanding Silicon Valley: The Anatomy of an Entrepreneurial Region</i>, edited by Martin Kenney. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 2000.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Levinson, Robert. “The F-35’s Global Supply Chain.” <i class="char-i">Businessweek</i>, September 1, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lévi-Strauss, Claude. <i class="char-i">Tristes Tropiques</i>. Translated by John Weightman and Doreen Weightman. New York: Penguin Books, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Levy, Steven. <i class="char-i">Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution</i>. Sebastopol, Calif.: O’Reilly, 2010.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Licklider, J. C. R. “Man-Computer Symbiosis.” <i class="char-i">IRE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics</i>, no. 1 (March 1960): 4–11.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lindauer, Martin. “House-Hunting by Honey Bee Swarms.” Translated by P. Kirk Visscher, Karin Behrens, and Susanne Kuehnholz. <i class="char-i">Journal of Comparative Physiology</i> 37 (1955).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Link, Perry. “China: The Anaconda in the Chandelier.” <i class="char-i">New York Review of Books</i>, April 11, 2002.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Linklater, Richard, dir. <i class="char-i">Before Sunset</i>. 2004; Burbank, Calif.: Warner Independent Pictures.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Long, Heather. “Who Is Jerome Powell, Trump’s Pick for the Nation’s Most Powerful Economic Position?” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, November 2, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lorenz, Konrad Z. <i class="char-i">King Solomon’s Ring</i>. New York: Thomas Y. Crowell, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ludendorff, Erich. <i class="char-i">The “Total” War</i>. Translated by Herbert Lawrence. London: Friends of Europe, 1936.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Lundberg, Ferdinand. <i class="char-i">America’s 60 Families</i>. New York: Vanguard Press, 1937.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">MacIntyre, Alasdair. <i class="char-i">After Virtue: A Study in Moral Theory</i>. 3rd ed. South Bend, Ind.: University of Notre Dame Press, 2007.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Madison, James. Letter from James Madison to Thomas Jefferson, June 19, 1786. In <i class="char-i">The Writings of James Madison</i>,<i class="char-i"> </i>Vol. 2, edited by Gaillard Hunt. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1901.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">The Writings of James Madison</i>, Vol. 3, edited by Gaillard Hunt. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1902.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mallapaty, Smriti, Jeff Tollefson, and Carissa Wong. “Do Scientists Make Good Presidents?” <i class="char-i">Nature</i>, June 6, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_275" role="doc-pagebreak" title="275"/>Martinez, Hannah J. “The Graduating Class of 2023 by the Numbers.” <i class="char-i">Harvard Crimson</i>, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Martinson, Jane, and Larry Elliott. “The Year Dot.com Turned into Dot.bomb.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, December 29, 2000.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Maxwell, William J., ed. <i class="char-i">James Baldwin: The FBI File</i>. New York: Arcade, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mazzucato, Mariana. <i class="char-i">The Entrepreneurial State: Debunking Public vs. Private Sector Myths</i>. London: Anthem Press, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">McCarthy, J., M. L. Minsky, N. Rochester, and C. E. Shannon. “A Proposal for the Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence.” August 31, 1955 (reproduced in <i class="char-i">AI Magazine </i>27, no. 4 (Winter 2006): 12–14).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">McCullough, Brian. <i class="char-i">How the Internet Happened: From Netscape to the iPhone</i>. New York: Liveright, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">McLaughlin, Andrew C., et al. <i class="char-i">The Study of History in Schools: Report to the American Historical Association</i>. New York: Macmillan, 1899.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">McNeill, William H. “Western Civ in World Politics: What We Mean by the West.” <i class="char-i">Orbis</i> 41, no. 4 (Autumn 1997): 513–24.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Meacham, Jon. <i class="char-i">Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power.</i> New York: Random House, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mencken, H. L. “Ludendorff.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, June 1917.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">The Metropolitan Museum of Art. <i class="char-i">Monet’s Years at Giverny: Beyond Impressionism</i>. New York: Harry N. Abrams Publishers, 1978.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Meyer, Edith Patterson. <i class="char-i">Dynamite and Peace: The Story of Alfred Nobel</i>. Boston: Little, Brown, 1958.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Milgram, Stanley. <i class="char-i">Obedience to Authority: An Experimental View</i>. New York: Harper Perennial, 2009.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mills, D. Quinn. “Who’s to Blame for the Bubble?” <i class="char-i">Harvard Business Review</i>, May 2001.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mirowski, Piotr, Juliette Love, Kory Mathewson, and Shakir Mohamed. “A Robot Walks into a Bar: Can Language Models Serve as Creativity Support Tools for Comedy? An Evaluation of LLMs’ Humour Alignment with Comedians.” ArXiv, June 3, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mishra, Pankaj. “Reorientations of Edward Said.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, April 19, 2021.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mothershed, Airon A. “The $435 Hammer and $600 Toilet Seat Scandals: Does Media Coverage of Procurement Scandals Lead to Procurement Reform?” <i class="char-i">Public Contract Law</i> 41, no. 4 (Summer 2012): 855–80.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mouat, Jeremy, and Ian Phimister. “The Engineering of Herbert Hoover.” <i class="char-i">Pacific Historical Review</i> 77, no. 4 (November 2008): 553–84.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mozur, Paul. “Inside China’s Dystopian Dreams: A.I., Shame, and Lots of Cameras.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, July 8, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_276" role="doc-pagebreak" title="276"/>Mozur, Paul, and Adam Satariano. “A.I. Begins Ushering in an Age of Killer Robots.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, July 2, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Muehlhauser, Luke. “What Should We Learn from Past AI Forecasts?” Open Philanthropy, May 2016. <a class="char-url" href="http://openphilanthropy.org/research/what-should-we-learn-from-past-ai-forecasts/">openphilanthropy.org/​research/​what-should-we-learn-from-past-ai-forecasts/</a>.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Murray, Pauli. <i class="char-i">Song in a Weary Throat: Memoir of an American Pilgrimage</i>. New York: Harper &amp; Row, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Mydans, Seth. “Singapore Announces 60 Percent Pay Raise for Ministers.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, April 9, 2007.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Nakashima, Ellen, and Reed Albergotti. “The FBI Wanted to Unlock the San Bernardino Shooter’s iPhone. It Turned to a Little-Known Australian Firm.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, April 14, 2021.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">National Defense Industrial Association (NDIA). “Army ‘Rapid Equipping Force’ Taking Root, Chief Says.” <i class="char-i">National Defense</i>, October 1, 2006.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">National Physical Laboratory. “Tracking People by Their ‘Gait Signature.’ ” September 20, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">National Student Clearinghouse. “Computer Science Has Highest Increase in Bachelor’s Earned.” National Student Clearinghouse, May 27, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Negroponte, Nicholas. “Big Idea Famine.” <i class="char-i">Journal of Design and Science</i>, no. 3 (February 2018).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Neier, Aryeh. <i class="char-i">Defending My Enemy: American Nazis, the Skokie Case, and the Risks of Freedom</i>. New York: E. P. Dutton, 1979.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Nevers, Kevin. “ ‘He Didn’t Hesitate’: Airborne Medic Jim Butz Dies a Hero in Afghanistan.” <i class="char-i">Chesterton </i>(Ind.)<i class="char-i"> Tribune</i>, October 3, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Newman, John. “Singapore’s <i class="char-i">Speak Mandarin Campaign</i>: The Educational Argument.” <i class="char-i">Southeast Asian Journal of Social Science</i> 14, no. 2 (1986): 52–67.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">New York Times</i>. “Admiral Rickover and the Trinkets.” May 24, 1985.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “The Dot-Com Bubble Bursts.” December 24, 2000.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Lehman: Rickover Had a ‘Fall from Grace.’ ” May 22, 1985.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Rickover Tells Lehman He Gave Away Gifts.” June 11, 1985.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ng, Patrick Chin Leong. “A Study of Attitudes Towards the Speak Mandarin Campaign in Singapore.” <i class="char-i">Intercultural Communication Studies</i> 23, no. 3 (2014): 53–65.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Nixon, Richard. “Address to the Nation on the War in Vietnam.” November 3, 1969. Washington, D.C.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Noonan, Peggy. “How Trump Lost Half of Washington.” <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i>, April 25, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “A Six-Month AI Pause? No, Longer Is Needed.” <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i>, March 30, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_277" role="doc-pagebreak" title="277"/>———. “The Uglyfication of Everything.” <i class="char-i">Wall Street Journal</i>, May 2, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Nussbaum, Martha. “Patriotism and Cosmopolitanism.” <i class="char-i">Boston Review</i>, October 1, 1994.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Nye, Joseph S., Jr. <i class="char-i">Soft Power: The Means to Success in World Politics</i>. New York: PublicAffairs, 2004.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Office of the Under Secretary of Defense. <i class="char-i">U.S. Department of Defense Fiscal Year 2024 Budget Request</i>. March 2023. comptroller.defense.gov/​Budget-Materials/​Budget2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ohno, Taiichi. <i class="char-i">Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale Production</i>. Portland, Ore.: Productivity Press, 1988.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Olusoga, David. “Civilisation Revisited.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, February 3, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Oppenheimer, J. Robert. “Physics in the Contemporary World.” <i class="char-i">Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists</i> 4, no. 3 (1948): 65–86.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Orton, Brad. “National Performance Review.” October 26, 1993, Old Executive Office Building, Washington, D.C., C-SPAN.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Orwell, George. <i class="char-i">1984</i>. New York: Penguin, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Osnos, Evan. “What Did China’s First Daughter Find in America?” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, April 6, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Xi Jinping’s Historic Bid at the Communist Party Congress.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, October 23, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Packer, George. “No Death, No Taxes.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, November 20, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Packer, Herbert L., et al. <i class="char-i">The Study of Education at Stanford: Report to the University</i>. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University, November 1968.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Pagé, Suzanne, Marianne Mathieu, and Angeline Scherf. <i class="char-i">Monet—Mitchell</i>. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Parisi, Giorgio. <i class="char-i">In a Flight of Starlings: The Wonder of Complex Systems</i>. Translated by Simon Carnell. New York: Penguin Books, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Parsons, Talcott. “Certain Primary Sources and Patterns of Aggression in the Social Structure of the Western World.” In <i class="char-i">Essays in Sociological Theory</i>, Rev. ed. Glencoe, Ill.: Free Press, 1954.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Perlow, Leslie A., Constance Noonan Hadley, and Eunice Eun. “Stop the Meeting Madness.” <i class="char-i">Harvard Business Review</i>, July–August 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Perlroth, Nicole. “The Groupon IPO: By the Numbers.” <i class="char-i">Forbes</i>, June 2, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Perlstein, Rick. <i class="char-i">Nixonland: The Rise of a President and the Fracturing of America</i>. New York: Scribner, 2008.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Perry, Robert. <i class="char-i">A History of Satellite Reconnaissance</i>. U.S. National Reconnaissance Office, October 1973.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Peters, Jay. “IBM Will No Longer Offer, Develop, or Research Facial Recognition Technology.” <i class="char-i">Verge</i>, June 8, 2020.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_278" role="doc-pagebreak" title="278"/>Pfeiffer, John. <i class="char-i">The Thinking Machine</i>. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott, 1962.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Pinker, Steven. <i class="char-i">The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined</i>. New York: Penguin Books, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">Enlightenment Now</i>. New York: Penguin Books, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Plant, Raymond. “Jürgen Habermas and the Idea of Legitimation Crisis.” <i class="char-i">European Journal of Political Research</i> 10 (1982): 341–52.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Plato. <i class="char-i">The Republic</i>. Translated by Desmond Lee. New York: Penguin Books, 2007.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Polenberg, Richard, ed. <i class="char-i">In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer: The Security Clearance Hearing</i>. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 2002.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Polmar, Norman, and Thomas B. Allen. <i class="char-i">Rickover: Controversy and Genius: A Biography</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 1982.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Porter, Catherine. “Cheers, Fears, and ‘Le Wokisme’: How the World Sees U.S. Campus Protests.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, May 3, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Powell, Jerome. “The Honorable Jerome H. Powell.” Interview by David M. Rubenstein. Economic Club of Washington D.C., February 7, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Pratt, Mary Louise. “Humanities for the Future: The Western Culture Debate at Stanford.” In <i class="char-i">The Liberal Arts Tradition</i>, edited by Bruce Kimball. Lanham, Md.: University Press of America, 2010.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Quinn, Roswell. “Rethinking Antibiotic Research and Development: World War II and the Penicillin Collaborative.” <i class="char-i">American Journal of Public Health</i> 103, no. 3 (2013): 426–34.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Raffoul, Amanda, et al. “Social Media Platforms Generate Billions of Dollars in Revenue from U.S. Youth: Findings from a Simulated Model.” <i class="char-i">PLoS ONE</i>, December 27, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rainey, Clint. “P(doom) Is AI’s Latest Apocalypse Metric. Here’s How to Calculate Your Score.” <i class="char-i">Fast Company</i>, December 7, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rajan, Raghuram, and Julie Wulf. “The Flattening Firm: Evidence from Panel Data on the Changing Nature of Corporate Hierarchies.” Working Paper No. 9633. National Bureau of Economic Research, April 2003.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Ramzy, Austin. “Xi Jinping on ‘House of Cards’ and Hemingway.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, September 23, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rawls, John. <i class="char-i">Political Liberalism</i>. New York: Columbia University Press, 2005.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “The Priority of Right and Ideas of the Good.” <i class="char-i">Philosophy and Public Affairs</i> 17, no. 4 (Autumn 1988): 253–76.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Remnick, David. “The Scholar of Comedy.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, April 28, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Renan, Ernest. <i class="char-i">What Is a Nation? And Other Political Writings</i>. Translated and edited by M. F. N. Giglioli. New York: Columbia University Press, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Reynolds, Winston A. “The Burning Ships of Hernán Cortés.” <i class="char-i">Hispania</i> 42, no. 3 (September 1959): 317–24.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_279" role="doc-pagebreak" title="279"/>Rickover, Hyman G. Interview by Diane Sawyer. <i class="char-i">60 Minutes</i>, CBS, 1984.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rigden, John S. <i class="char-i">Rabi: Scientist and Citizen</i>. New York: Basic Books, 1987.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rigolot, François. “Curiosity, Contingency, and Cultural Diversity: Montaigne’s Readings at the Vatican Library.” <i class="char-i">Renaissance Quarterly</i> 64, no. 3 (Fall 2011): 847–74.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rogers, Alex. “The MRAP: Brilliant Buy, or Billions Wasted?” <i class="char-i">Time</i>, October 2, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rohlfs, Chris, and Ryan Sullivan. “Why the $600,000 Vehicles Aren’t Worth the Money.” <i class="char-i">Foreign Affairs</i>, July 26, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Roose, Kevin. “Bing’s A.I. Chat: ‘I Want to Be Alive.’ ” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, February 16, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rosenbaum, David E. “Remaking Government: Few Disagree with Clinton’s Overall Goal, but History Shows the Obstacles Ahead.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, September 8, 1993.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Rusli, Evelyn M. “Zynga’s Value, at $7 Billion, Is Milestone for Social Gaming.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, December 15, 2011.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sabato, Larry J. <i class="char-i">Feeding Frenzy: How Attack Journalism Has Transformed American Politics</i>. New York: Free Press, 1993.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Said, Edward. <i class="char-i">Orientalism</i>. New York: Vintage Books, 1979.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sallust. <i class="char-i">The War with Catiline</i>. Translated by J. C. Rolfe and revised by John T. Ramsey. Loeb Classical Library. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Salovey, Peter. “Free Speech, Personified.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, November 26, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sandberg-Diment, Erik. “Hardware Review: Apple Weighs in with Its Macintosh.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, January 24, 1984.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sandel, Michael J. <i class="char-i">Liberalism and the Limits of Justice</i>. 2nd ed. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 1998.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. <i class="char-i">What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets</i>. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sapolsky, Harvey M., and Michael Schrage. “More Than Technology Needed To Defeat Roadside Bombs.” <i class="char-i">National Defense</i>, April 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Savitz, Eric J. “Groupon Stock Craters. The Turnaround Is Taking Longer Than Hoped.” <i class="char-i">Barron’s</i>, November 10, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sax, Boris. <i class="char-i">Imaginary Animals: The Monstrous, the Wondrous and the Human</i>.<i class="char-i"> </i>London: Reaktion Books, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Scarborough, Rowan. “Soldier Battling Bombs Irked by Software Switch.” <i class="char-i">Washington Times</i>, July 22, 2012.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Schelling, Thomas. <i class="char-i">Arms and Influence</i>. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1966.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_280" role="doc-pagebreak" title="280"/>Schlosser, Eric. <i class="char-i">Command and Control: Nuclear Weapons, the Damascus Accident, and the Illusion of Safety</i>. New York: Penguin Press, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Schödel, Kathrin. “Normalising Cultural Memory? The ‘Walser-Bubis Debate’ and Martin Walser’s Novel <i class="char-i">Ein springender Brunnen</i>.” In <i class="char-i">Recasting German Identity: Culture, Politics, and Literature in the Berlin Republic</i>, edited by Stuart Taberner and Frank Finlay. Rochester, N.Y.: Camden House, 2002.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Schulz, Kathryn. “The Many Lives of Pauli Murray.” <i class="char-i">New Yorker</i>, April 10, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Scruton, Roger. “Animal Rights.” <i class="char-i">City Journal</i> (Summer 2000).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Seeley, Thomas D. <i class="char-i">Honeybee Democracy</i>. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2010.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Martin Lindauer (1918–2008).” <i class="char-i">Nature</i>, December 11, 2008.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Seeley, T.D., S. Kunholz, and R.H. Seeley. “An Early Chapter in Behavioral Physiology and Sociobiology: The Science of Martin Lindauer.” <i class="char-i">Journal of Comparative Physiology</i>, 188 (July 2002).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sennett, Richard. “The Identity Myth.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, January 30, 1994.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Shaban, Hamza. “Google Parent Alphabet Reports Soaring Ad Revenue, Despite YouTube Backlash.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, February 1, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Shane, Leo, III. “Why One Lawmaker Keeps Pushing for a New Military Draft.” <i class="char-i">Military Times</i>, March 30, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Shane, Scott, and Daisuke Wakabayashi. “ ‘The Business of War’: Google Employees Protest Work for the Pentagon.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, April 4, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Shatz, Adam. “ ‘Orientalism,’ Then and Now.” <i class="char-i">New York Review of Books</i>, May 20, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Shell, Jason. “How the IED Won: Dispelling the Myth of Tactical Success and Innovation.” <i class="char-i">War on the Rocks</i>, May 1, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sherwood, Harriet. “Hamas Says 250 People Held Hostage in Gaza.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, October 16, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Shiller, Robert J. <i class="char-i">Irrational Exuberance</i>. New York: Crown, 2006.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sigel, Efrem. “Harvard, Yale Students to Issue New Invitations to Gov. Wallace.” <i class="char-i">Harvard Crimson</i>, September 25, 1963.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “New Wallace Invitation Expected at Yale Today.” <i class="char-i">Harvard Crimson</i>, September 24, 1963.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Silver, Nate. <i class="char-i">On the Edge: The Art of Risking Everything</i>. New York: Penguin Press, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Simon, Herbert A. <i class="char-i">The New Science of Management Decision</i>. New York: Harper &amp; Brothers, 1960.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Simon, Herbert A., and Allen Newell. “Heuristic Problem Solving: The Next <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_281" role="doc-pagebreak" title="281"/>Advance in Operations Research.” <i class="char-i">Operations Research</i> 6, no. 1 (January–February 1958): 1–10.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Simonite, Tom. “Behind the Rise of China’s Facial-Recognition Giants.” <i class="char-i">Wired</i>. September 3, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sims, David. “No, Really, I’m Awful.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, April 26, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Singer, Peter. <i class="char-i">Animal Liberation: A New Ethics for Our Treatment of Animals</i>.<i class="char-i"> </i>New York: New York Review Books, 1975.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sledge, Matt, and Ramon Antonio Vargas. “Palantir’s Crime-Fighting Software Causes Stir in New Orleans; NOPD Rebuts Civil Liberties Concerns.” <i class="char-i">Times-Picayune</i>, March 1, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Slomovic, Anna. <i class="char-i">Anteing Up: The Government’s Role in the Microelectronics Industry</i>. Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND Corporation, December 16, 1988.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Smith, Emily Esfahani. “The Friendship That Changed Art.” <i class="char-i">Artists Magazine</i> 35, no. 6 (July/August 2018).</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Smith, James K. A. “Reconsidering ‘Civil Religion.’ ” <i class="char-i">Comment</i>, May 11, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Smith, Jean Edward. <i class="char-i">FDR</i>. New York: Random House, 2008.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sneed, Annie. “Computer Beats Go Champion for First Time.” <i class="char-i">Scientific American</i>, January 27, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Soapes, Thomas. Interview with Hans A. Bethe. Dwight D. Eisenhower Library, Abilene, Kans., November 3, 1977.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sokolove, Michael. “How to Lose $850 Million—and Not Really Care.” <i class="char-i">New York Times Magazine</i>, June 9, 2002.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Solomon, Charles. “Two States—One Nation?” <i class="char-i">Los Angeles Times</i>, November 17, 1991.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Somers, James. “The Man Who Would Teach Machines to Think.” <i class="char-i">Atlantic</i>, November 15, 2013.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Somerville, Mary. <i class="char-i">On the Connexion of the Physical Sciences</i>. London: John Murray, 1834.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Spengler, Oswald. <i class="char-i">The Decline of the West</i>. New York: Oxford University Press, 1991.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Spiegel</i>. “Martin Walser Bereut Verhalten Gegenüber Ignatz Bubis.” March 16, 2007.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Spitz, Lewis W. “Beyond Western Civilization: Rebuilding the Survey.” <i class="char-i">History Teacher</i> 10, no. 4 (August 1977): 515–24.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Stanley, Jay. “New Orleans Program Offers Lessons in Pitfalls of Predictive Policing.” <i class="char-i">American Civil Liberties Union</i>, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Starkie, Thomas. <i class="char-i">A Practical Treatise on the Law of Evidence, and Digest of Proofs, in Civil and Criminal Proceedings</i>, Vol. 1. Boston: Wells &amp; Lilly, 1826.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_282" role="doc-pagebreak" title="282"/>Stewart, Emilie B. “Survey of PRC Drone Swarm Inventions.” China Aerospace Studies Institute, U.S. Air Force, October 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Stout, David. “Solomon Asch Is Dead at 88; A Leading Social Psychologist.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, February 29, 1996.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Strauss, Leo. <i class="char-i">What Is Political Philosophy?</i> Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1959.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Suleyman, Mustafa. <i class="char-i">The Coming Wave: Technology, Power, and the Twenty-First Century’s Greatest Dilemma</i>. With Michael Bhaskar. New York: Crown, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sullivan, Walter. “65% in Test Blindly Obey Order to Inflict Pain.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, October 26, 1963.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Summers, Larry. Interview by David Remnick. <i class="char-i">New Yorker Radio Hour</i>. NPR, May 3, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Surowiecki, James. <i class="char-i">The Wisdom of Crowds</i>. New York: Anchor Books, 2005.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Sutter, Daniel. “Media Scrutiny and the Quality of Public Officials.” <i class="char-i">Public Choice</i> 129 (2006): 25–40.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Swensen, David. “A Conversation with David Swensen.” Interview by Robert E. Rubin. Council on Foreign Relations, November 14, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Tarnoff, Ben. “Tech Workers Versus the Pentagon.” <i class="char-i">Jacobin</i>, June 6, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Taylor, Paul. “How to Spend Europe’s Defense Bonanza Intelligently.” <i class="char-i">Politico</i>, September 2, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Tetlock, Philip E. <i class="char-i">Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can We Know?</i> Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2005.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Thomas, Dylan. <i class="char-i">The Collected Poems of Dylan Thomas: Original Edition</i>.<i class="char-i"> </i>New York: New Directions, 2010.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Thomas, Sean. “Are We Ready for P(doom)?” <i class="char-i">Spectator</i>, March 4, 2024.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Tiku, Nitasha. “The Google Engineer Who Thinks the Company’s AI Has Come to Life.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, June 11, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Google Fired Engineer Who Said Its AI Was Sentient.” <i class="char-i">Washington Post</i>, July 22, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><i class="char-i">Time</i>. “Cosmoclast Einstein.” July 1, 1946.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Man and Woman of the Year: The Middle Americans.” January 5, 1970.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Patterns in Chaos.” Review of <i class="char-i">The Decline of the West: Perspectives of World History</i>, by Oswald Spengler. December 10, 1928.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “The Press: In a Corner, on the 13th Floor.” July 22, 1946.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">———. “Public Figures and Their Private Lives.” August 22, 1969.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Treaster, Joseph B. “Brewster Doubts Fair Black Trials.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, April 25, 1970.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Turchin, Peter. <i class="char-i">End Times: Elites, Counter-elites, and the Path of Political Disintegration</i>. New York: Penguin Press, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_283" role="doc-pagebreak" title="283"/>Tussman, Joseph. “The Collegiate Rite of Passage.” In <i class="char-i">Experiment and Innovation: New Directions in Education at the University of California</i>, July 1968.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">U.S. Department of Defense. <i class="char-i">Military Specification Cookie Mix Dry</i>,<i class="char-i"> </i>MIL-C-43205G.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">U.S. Department of Energy. <i class="char-i">The Manhattan Project: Making the Atomic Bomb</i>. January 1999.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">U.S. Department of the Interior. National Register of Historic Places Inventory. <i class="char-i">Historic Hutterite Colonies Thematic Resources</i>. 1979.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">U.S. Department of the Treasury. “Treasury Identifies Eight Chinese Tech Firms as Part of the Chinese Military-Industrial Complex.” December 16, 2021. home.treasury.gov/​news/​press-releases/​jy0538.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology. “Technology Evaluation.”</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Vance, Ashlee. <i class="char-i">Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future</i>. New York: HarperCollins, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Veblen, Thorstein. <i class="char-i">The Theory of the Leisure Class</i>. Edited by Martha Banta. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Vinograd, Cassandra, and Isabel Kershner. “Israel’s Attackers Took About 240 Hostages.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, November 20, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Voltaire. <i class="char-i">Zadig; or, The Book of Fate, an Oriental History</i>. London, 1749.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Wakefield, Dan. “William F. Buckley Jr.: Portrait of a Complainer.” <i class="char-i">Esquire</i>, January 1, 1961.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Wallace, George C. “Inaugural Address.” <i class="char-i">Alabama Department of Archives and History</i>. Montgomery, Ala.: January 14, 1963.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Wallace, Robin. “Why Beethoven’s Loss of Hearing Added Dimensions to His Music.” <i class="char-i">Zócalo Public Square</i>, July 28, 2019. zocalopublicsquare.org/​why-beethovens-loss-of-hearing-added-new-dimensions-to-his-music.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Watlington, Emily. “ ‘Monet/Mitchell’ Shows How the Impressionist’s Blindness Charted a Path for Abstraction.” <i class="char-i">Art in America</i>, May 12, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Weisgerber, Marcus. “F-35 Production Set to Quadruple as Massive Factory Retools.” <i class="char-i">Defense One</i>, May 6, 2016.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Wendling, Mike. “Xi Jinping: Chinese Leader’s Surprising Ties to Rural Iowa.” BBC, November 15, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Whang, Oliver. “How to Tell if Your A.I. Is Conscious.” <i class="char-i">New York Times</i>, September 18, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">White, Debbie. “Drones Branch Out To Swarming Through Forests.” <i class="char-i">Times</i> (London), May 5, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">White, Richard D., Jr. “Executive Reorganization, Theodore Roosevelt, and the Keep Commission.” <i class="char-i">Administrative Theory and Praxis</i> 24, no. 3 (2002): 507–18.</p>
			<p class="para-bib"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_284" role="doc-pagebreak" title="284"/>Whyte, Kenneth. <i class="char-i">Hoover: An Extraordinary Life in Extraordinary Times</i>. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2017.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Wigner, Eugene. “The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences.” <i class="char-i">Communications in Pure and Applied Mathematics</i> 13, no. 1 (February 1960): 1–14.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Winston, Ali. “Palantir Has Secretly Been Using New Orleans to Test Its Predictive Policing Technology.” <i class="char-i">Verge</i>, February 27, 2018.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Wong, Julia Carrie. “ ‘We Won’t Be War Profiteers’: Microsoft Workers Protest $48M Army Contract.” <i class="char-i">Guardian</i>, February 22, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Wortman, Marc. <i class="char-i">Admiral Hyman Rickover: Engineer of Power</i>. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 2022.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Yglesias, Matthew. “Pay Congress More.” <i class="char-i">Vox</i>, May 10, 2019.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Yudkowsky, Eliezer. “Pausing AI Development Isn’t Enough. We Need to Shut It All Down.” <i class="char-i">Time</i>, March 29, 2023.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Zachary, G. Pascal. <i class="char-i">Endless Frontier: Vannevar Bush, Engineer of the American Century</i>. New York: Free Press, 1997.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Zelinsky, Nathaniel. “Challenging the Unchallengeable (Sort Of).” <i class="char-i">Yale Alumni Magazine</i>, January/February 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Zhang, Taisu, Graham Webster, and Orville Schell. “What Xi Jinping’s Seattle Speech Might Mean for the U.S.” <i class="char-i">Foreign Policy</i>, September 23, 2015.</p>
			<p class="para-bib">Zhou, Xin, et al. “Swarm of Micro Flying Robots in the Wild.” <i class="char-i">Science Robotics</i> 7, no. 66 (2022).</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>